Grizzled Passenger: You were moanin' in your sleep an' sweatin' buckets besides. Rollin' of the ship got your stomach churnin', has it?
Grizzled Passenger: Hmmm... Don't seem like seasickness, now that I look at you. It'll be the aether, then, I reckon.
Grizzled Passenger: Some are more sensitive to the stuff than others, see, an' we ain't too far from Vylbrand now, which is chock-full of aetherytes.
Grizzled Passenger: No need to fret, though. You'll soon get used to it.
Grizzled Passenger: Eurgh. Might as well have been bloomin' seasickness... Ship's leapin' around like a demented chocobo today.
Grizzled Passenger: I reckon I might head out on deck─get meself a breath of fresh air.
Grizzled Passenger: Limsa Lominsa's still a fair way off, in case you were wonderin'. Seein' as you're awake an' all, how's about you keep me company till we get there?
Grizzled Passenger: Them young'uns don't much care for conversation, see.
Brennan: Anyroad, Brennan's the name, an' peddlin's me trade.
Brennan: Ah, smell that salty sea breeze!
Brennan: Now then, lad, judgin' by your unusual garments, I'd say you were one of them new adventurers. Am I warm?
Brennan: I knew it! Goin' wherever the wind blows, seekin' fortune an' glory─now that's what I call livin'!
Brennan: So long as you can avoid dyin', I mean. Ain't no secret that adventurin's a risky business─these days especially.
Brennan: What was it that first attracted you to it?
Brennan: Fortune, eh? Well, it's a dream we've all had at one time or another.
Brennan: Once you've learned to handle yourself in a fight, you'll want to pay a visit to whichever craftin' or gatherin' guild tickles your fancy.
Brennan: Limsa Lominsa's renowned for its smitties an' armorers, not to mention its fisherfolk. An' then there's its cooks, of course.
Brennan: Adventurin' ain't just about killin' things, after all. A peaceful pastime may well help you make your fortune!
Brennan: Just remember, though: there're more important things than fortune an' glory. Such as breathin'. Ain't no profit in bein' dead, an' that's a fact.
Brennan: Uwaaah!
Stalwart Sailor: Ships off the starboard bow! Pirate colors!


Brennan: Pirates? Bloody hells...
Stalwart Sailor: Have ye no sense!? Get below!
Brennan: What is the world comin' to...? Pirates firin' on a ship flyin' Lominsan colors! Bastards either have a boatload of balls, or bugger all brains.
Stalwart Sailor: Ye can rest easy, friends! We've made it out o' cannon range, an' no buccaneer's bark'll catch this flighty temptress once the wind's in her sails.
Brennan: That was too bleedin' close... Glad one of us kept his head on his shoulders─I reckon I'd've lost mine, otherwise.
Brennan: If them pirates gave up the chase, we must be close to port. Let's head up on deck an' have us a look, shall we?
Brennan: By the by, is this your first trip to Limsa Lominsa?
Brennan: It is!? Well then, let this journeyed itinerant tell you the ins an' outs of your destination. Ahem!
Brennan: Thought not! Ah, but I'll wager there've been some changes since your last visit. Allow a journeyed itinerant to apprise you of the current state of affairs. Ahem!
Brennan: Limsa Lominsa prides itself on bein' Eorzea's foremost naval power.
Brennan: Weren't too long ago that the place was ruled by pirates, but thanks to the current admiral's civilizin' influence, the city-state could almost pass for a respectable nation. You'd never guess she was once a rum-swillin' buccaneer herself! Heh heh!
Brennan: 'Course, most folk ain't so quick to change, an' with a town full of liberty-lovin' ruffians, you can imagine how many naysayers an' troublemakers she's got to deal with─like them pirates who took a fancy to us just now.
Brennan: An' if that weren't bad enough, I've heard the Sahagin are raidin' the coast just as bold as you please. Them're the sea-dwellin' beastmen the locals call “fishbacks, case you didn't know.
Brennan: Ah, at long last. Land ho!
Brennan: Behold Limsa Lominsa, a nation blessed by the ocean's bounty an' beloved of Llymlaen, goddess of navigation. 
Brennan: An' here's where we part ways, son.
Brennan: I'm off to the markets to deliver me wares, then it's on to the highroad for me.
Brennan: Here, I want you to have this─by way of thanks for savin' me arse earlier.
Brennan: Hey─you never did tell me your name, did you? Well, here's an idea...
Brennan: Become the sort of storied personage I can brag about havin' met, an' I'll consider us square.
Yellowjacket Infantryman: Hey! You there!
Yellowjacket Infantryman: Aye, I mean you. This is my district, and I make it my business to know all the scum that washes up in it.
Yellowjacket Infantryman: Ah, an adventurer fresh off the boat, is it? Well then...
Ryssfloh: Allow one of Limsa Lominsa's finest to set you on the right path. Hop to it, lad, I haven't got all day!


Lv.1                 Coming to Limsa Lominsa
Ryssfloh: Now then, I'm sure you're itching to explore, but adventurers are required to register their presence in the city...and without a bit of local knowledge, you're like to get your throat slit in some piss-stinking alley.
Ryssfloh: So before you do anything else, get yourself over to the Drowning Wench and enroll with the Adventurers' Guild.
Ryssfloh: It's not far─just head straight down this street and speak with Grehfarr. He'll show you how to work that big moving platform we call the Crow's Lift, and that'll take you up to the pub.
Ryssfloh: Once you're there, look for a fellow by the name of Baderon─he's the proprietor of the Wench. He might curse like an ale-sodden sailor, but the man's got a soft spot for wide-eyed newcomers like yourself. He'll set you straight.
Ryssfloh: Got all that? Good. Now run along, and may the Navigator guide you on your journey.
Grehfarr: Welcome to Limsa Lominsa. If you've a mind to visit the Drowning Wench, the Crow's Lift will take you there.
Baderon: Greetin's to ye, lad.
Baderon: What'll it be? ...Ah, but you ain't 'ere for the drink, are ye!? Ye've come with a mind to try yer 'and at 'venturin', I reckon! Well, ye'll find no shortage o' work 'ere in Limsa.
Baderon: The name's Baderon, an' this most 'ospitable of 'ostelries is the Drownin' Wench.
Baderon: 'Tis also the 'ome o' the 'Venturers' Guild, 'ere in Limsa. That's why we've got a desk 'specially fer 'andlin' guild business─an' why I seem to spend more time savin' the necks o' whelps like yerself than wettin' the throats o' me regulars.
Baderon: 'Venturers 'ave a knack fer findin' trouble, see.
Baderon: Not that they need it in these parts, on account o' there bein' trouble wherever ye look. If ye manage to steer clear o' the fishbacks an' the kobolds outside the city, the pirates on the inside will get ye instead.
Baderon: An' if they don't manage, there's always the Garlean Empire to finish the job. Oh, no one knows what they're plannin', o' course...but if they're plannin' anythin', ye can be sure it's to kill the lot of us.
Baderon: Aye...this town seems peaceful at a glance, but look again, an' ye'll see a people livin' in fear o' what tomorrow might bring.
Baderon: ...An' who can blame 'em, after everythin' that's 'appened? Eorzea took a mighty blow durin' the Calamity, but our 'omes weren't the only things what got wiped off the face of existence by that thrice-damned bastard of a dragon.
Baderon: It took our bleedin' memories, too. An' no one's been able to explain it in a way as makes an onze o' sense.
Baderon: None o' the folks what saw it an' lived to tell the tale seem to agree on 'ow the tale actually goes. 'Tis all foggy...like recollections from an 'ard night on the ale. Ye can imagine why people might fear fer the future if they can't rightly recall the past.
Baderon: But there is one thing we all remember, an' that's the group o' 'venturers what laid down their lives to drag Eorzea back from the brink, when she was bound fer the abyss.
Baderon: Well, I say we remember... Truth is, though we ain't forgotten what they did fer us, this godsdamned Calamity-spawned memory loss robbed us o' their names...
Baderon: It won't even let us picture their damn faces. 'Tis like starin' at a gull flyin' in front o' the sun─all ye see in yer mind's eye is a shadow set against a blindin' glare. An' that's 'ow every bugger describes it, by the way...give or take the odd gull.


Baderon: It's this what's got people callin' these 'eroes the “Warriors o' Light.”
Baderon: If Limsa's ever goin' to put this time o' darkness behind it, it's goin' to need 'venturers to 'elp banish the fear. It's goin' to need new 'eroes like the ones we lost.
Baderon: Maybe one day ye'll be one of 'em. An' that's why any aid we can give to a 'venturer is effort well spent. What say ye, lad? Ye willin' to lend us yer strength?
Baderon: Me thanks to ye, an' to the Navigator an' all! I knew She'd steered ye my way fer a reason.
Baderon: Ah, but listen to me, yatterin' on like a sun-touched fishwife. 'Tis 'igh time we got yer mark in me book.
Baderon: Put yer scrawl right there.
Baderon: Einwyrm Ferrinas, is it? An' a fine name it is.
Baderon: Congratulations. Yer now an upstandin' member o' the 'Venturers' Guild.
Yellowjacket: You there─adventurer. You sailed in on the last ferry, did you not?
Yellowjacket: The captain reported being attacked by a pirate vessel. And several witnesses have testified independently that a passenger matching your description went out on deck mere moments before the incident took place. Sending your friends signals, were you?
Baderon: Now 'old on a just a moment there, officer. Ye've got the wrong bloke.
Baderon: This fine, upstandin' young gent is me dear departed grandma's sister's niece's cousin's closest companion. The lad wouldn't be caught dead fraternizin' with such unsavory elements.
Yellowjacket: ...Is that right? Ahem. You are surely aware of the recent kidnappings? Respectfully, then, we cannot be too trusting of outsiders at a time when the loyalty of even our closest friends is in doubt.
Baderon: Aye, ye make a good point there, officer, a very good point. Very wise. Ye needn't worry, though─I keep one eye open at all times, me, an' two more often than not. Now, sir, what say ye to a tankard o' me finest ale afore ye return to yer duties, eh?
Yellowjacket: Not a watered-down cup of piss like last time, I should hope?
Baderon: Ain't got the faintest idea what yer on about, officer. The Wench might offer some o' the cheapest grog this side o' the Strait o' Merlthor, but that don't mean it won't get ye good an' pickled! An' look, there's a chair over there just cryin' out to be sat on, so kick off them 'eavy boots, eh!?
Baderon: Ye'll 'ave to excuse these eager bloody Yellowjackets. There's been a spate o' kidnappin's, see, an' they ain't got a clue who's behind 'em. Naturally, they've taken to clappin' irons on anyone who looks vaguely suspicious, which means 'venturers, visitors...an' pretty much every bugger else in this town.
Baderon: Don't take it personal, though. Us Lominsans can be an 'eadstrong bunch o' bastards, 'tis true, but given time, we'll grow on ye. Now, where was I...?
Baderon: Oh aye! Welcome to Limsa Lominsa, where the sea's as green as the faces o' me patrons after a few too many Blackbelly whiskeys!
Baderon: Now, take a moment to gather yer wits, an' we'll get started with learnin' ye the ways o' the city.


Lv. 1                Close to Home
Baderon: Right, then. Let's start ye off nice an' easy with three tasks what'll 'elp ye get used to life 'ere in Limsa.
Baderon: Firstly, if ye 'ead down a floor then point yer nose to the west, ye'll get an eyeful o' the great glowin' crystal in the middle o' the courtyard.
Baderon: That's an aetheryte─a device what can move ye from one place to another in the blink of an eye. Ain't no swifter way to travel─providin' there's an aetheryte where ye want to go, o' course.
Baderon: 'Ave a chat with the Yellowjacket on guard down there an' ye'll be treated to a lecture on the workin's o' the device. 'Fore ye do that, though, remember to touch the thing. Strange as it sounds, it won't work 'til you 'ave.
Baderon: Second on the list is the marketplace. Ye'll find weapons an' armor an' all yer 'venturin' bits an' pieces for sale in the district what lies beyond the aetheryte.
Baderon: Don't go throwin' yer gil around just yet, though, or ye'll get fleeced quicker'n ye can say, “Why's me coin purse so light?” 'Ave a word with Swozblaet, instead. 'E's the 'ead o' the Merchants' League, by the way.
Baderon: Give 'im this old octant, an' 'e'll treat ye well.
Baderon: For the last o' me 'elpful 'ints, I suggest ye meet some fellow axe-wielders at the Marauders' Guild.
Baderon: I guarantee ye'll learn a few new tricks fer swingin' that 'ead-splitter o' yours if ye join their crew. Blauthota at the front desk is the one to get ye started.
Baderon: Got all that, lad? Seein' to them three task'll take ye on a little jaunt 'round the city, an' 'elp ye work out where everythin' is. Now, I've best be gettin' on. Run along, eh?
Baderon: Bugger it! There I go, sendin' ye off without tellin' ye summat crucial. That bloody Calamity's made a right mess o' me memory, I swear. Well, that or the ale... Anyroad, while yer out an' about, if ye 'appen to pass any poor sods what look like they might need yer 'elp, consider givin' their tale o' woe a listen, eh?
Baderon: Sounds like a chore, I admit, but ye never know what interestin' opportunities could be lurkin' out there, just waitin' fer ye to stumble on 'em.
Baderon: Aye, yer like to find yerself runnin' odd errands in the beginnin', but once ye build a reputation as a man folk can trust, the jobs'll get 'arder an' the rewards more generous. An' that, my lad, is 'ow ye go about becomin' a legend among 'venturers.


[Attune Aetheryte]
Sundhimal: Ah, another novice adventurer. Aye, Baderon has sent more than a few of your kind this way of late.
Sundhimal: I am Sundhimal, one of the Yellowjackets tasked with keeping the peace in the city. It is also my charge to provide guidance in the use of this device. Fear not, I shall be brief.
Sundhimal: Aetherytes are crystalline structures that tap into aetherial energies. They are primarily used as a means to travel swiftly from one place to another.
Sundhimal: Return and Teleport─the most common transportation spells─make direct use of the aetherytes and their connection to the flow of aether.
Sundhimal: And as these devices are found in almost every corner of Eorzea, any adventurer worthy of the name will wish to seek out and attune himself to each one.
Sundhimal: Once you have expanded your horizons beyond the walls of the city, you will soon find yourself performing the act of attunement as a matter of course.
Sundhimal: There is, however, no need for unseemly haste. The aetherytes found in and around the city will be sufficient for the present, I assure you.
Sundhimal: Should you wish to learn more about aethefrytes or transportation magic, I will be here to answer your questions.


[Listen to Swozblaet’s explanation about the market]
Swozblaet: A fine day to you, sir! Welcome to the most replete marketplace in the grand realm of Eorzea, where every shelf groans under the weight of wonders borne from all four corners of the world!
Swozblaet: Pray browse the stalls until your eyeballs ache from ogling the overabundance of unbelievable bargains! Now, as much as I would love to elaborate upon the unrivaled quality of our merchandise, I must tend to some cargo but recently arrived at the docks─
Swozblaet: Hm? You bear a gift from Baderon? Whatever could it─ Ah! My octant! By the Navigator, I must have left it behind in the Wench─along with a week's pay and several bells' worth of intoxicated memories!
Swozblaet: I am most grateful to have it back! This tool is a keepsake from my days as a ship captain, you see. Needless to say, your good deed must be repaid, and what better recompense than the wisdom of a master merchant!
Swozblaet: If it is simple and sturdy adventuring equipment you seek, you need look no further than the East and West arms of Hawkers' Alley.
Swozblaet: Lest you doubt, each gil you invest in arms and armor will be money well spent. Adventuring is, after all, a dangerous profession by its very nature.
Swozblaet: It goes without saying that Hawker's Alley boasts stalls specializing in the tools of every martial discipline imaginable.
Swozblaet: And within but a few steps are bazaars and apothecaries that will most amply supply all your potion and perishable needs.
Swozblaet: Our keen-eyed agents procure a frankly befuddling range of wares during their sojourns to distant shores, so it pays to become familiar with the type─and price─of the goods offered by each stall.
Swozblaet: Such knowledge will serve you well if your purse is light or your time is short.
Swozblaet: Ah, but verbal instruction of this kind will only profit you so much. Experience has ever been the surest teacher─if not the kindest. I invite you to explore the markets for yourself.


[Visit the Marauders’ Guild]
Blauthota: Ho there, adventurer. Curious about the Marauders' Guild, are ye?
Blauthota: Any axe worth swingin' needs two hands on the haft, an' has a blade what can make short work of a galley's mast. That's the kind o' weapon our members train to use with deceptive swiftness an' all too predictable force.
Blauthota: Are ye interested in hearin' more, lad? Then why don't I give ye the short version o' the guild's foundin' history, an' we can go from there.
Blauthota: It all started with ships, ye see. What've ships got to do with axes, ye ask? Well, buildin' 'em would be pretty bloody difficult without a sturdy tool to lop down trees for timber.
Blauthota: An' since only the Navigator Herself knows when a ship'll run afoul of a storm or worse, it makes sense for the crew's carpenter to carry an axe on board. Aye, it all started with shipbuildin' an' ship repair. What? Am I borin' ye?
Blauthota: Hmph. As I was sayin', any tool on a ship can become a weapon, an' the axe was perfect for hookin' yerself over the rail of an enemy vessel, lettin' loose in a whirl o' steel, an' generally layin' waste to all about ye.
Blauthota: As more seafarers took up the axe as their weapon o' choice, so did the bloody art o' the marauder begin to take shape─'specially among pirates, where strength an' skill decided yer place in the world.
Blauthota: With an eye to assemblin' crews o' battle-ready raiders, the pirates started teachin' the proper way to wield a choppin' blade to their new recruits. An' that's how the Marauders' Guild first came to be.
Blauthota: But once the Galadion Accord was signed to unite the Maelstrom an' the pirates against Limsa's enemies, the whole game changed.
Blauthota: The accord itself was a dismal failure, o' course, but the Marauders' Guild was never the same─it was taken over, restructured, an' purged of its pirate elements. It had been reborn as an institution dedicated to naught but the teachin' of axe fightin'.
Blauthota: The members o' this new Marauders' Guild weren't no greed-driven cutthroats, neither─they were warriors what sought to use their martial prowess for the good o' society.
Blauthota: If masterin' the axe is yer heart's desire, then ye'll find no better arena in which to practice yer swings.
Blauthota: Think it over, then let me know if ye fancy joinin' our ranks. I've a feelin' I'll be seein' more o' ye soon, lad.


[Return to Baderon]
Baderon: Ah, there ye are, Einwyrm. Enjoy yer jaunt 'round the city, did ye?
Baderon: If ye mean to base yerself in Limsa Lominsa, that won't be the last time ye'll visit them three places.
Baderon: An' now ye've got some idea o' what's where, ye can start explorin' the rest o' the town.
Baderon: Ye've shown a good ear fer listenin', lad. Stick with ol' Baderon, an' ye'll go far.


Lv. 4                On to Summerford
Baderon: Still in Limsa, are ye, Einwyrm? 'Ow'd ye fancy a trip outside the city walls?
Baderon: I'd like ye to visit an orchard by the name o' Summerford Farms. Ever 'eard o' the place? The owner, Staelwyrn, is an old mate o' mine.
Baderon: 'E's got 'imself a crew o' mostly reformed pirate types, if ye can believe that, and 'as been tryin to bring a bit o' life back to the fields after the Calamity ruined the soil. 'E mentioned needin' another 'and or two, and yer name sprang to mind.
Baderon: I gave ye a glowin' recommendation, so make sure ye work 'ard and impress the old bastard. Ye need directions? The place ain't 'ard to find: just take the Zephyr Gate out o' the city, and follow the road northeast.
Staelwyrn: Ah, you must be the adventurer Baderon promised to send along. Einwyrm Ferrinas, wasn't it?
Staelwyrn: You honored his word, so that's a good start. I'm Staelwyrn, the “old bastard,” as Baderon likely described me, and this here is my humble orchard.
Staelwyrn: A good number of the lads and lasses workin' here once terrorized the high seas. And if you're wonderin' why I employ these scrags, well, they used to crew my pirate ship.
Staelwyrn: But the Calamity did for our ship, like it did so many others, and I was sore wounded into the bargain.
Staelwyrn: I had to feed myself and my crew somehow, and Admiral Merlwyb's initiative to get us landlocked buccaneers workin' the fields seemed too fine an offer to refuse.
Staelwyrn: Well, it turns out you can take the pirate away from the sea, but you can't take the sea away from the pirate. A lot of my blokes just never took to tendin' the soil, you see.
Staelwyrn: And unfortunately, the botanists I called in to train 'em have been wringin' their hands in black despair. With so much work pilin' up, I need a tougher soul like you to step in and help where it's needed.




Lv. 5         Dressed to Call
Staelwyrn: I've a mind to set you a task, Ferrinas, but before I do, I need to be sure you're properly kitted out.
Staelwyrn: Pirates don't care to parlay with dandies, you understand. It might well be that the ones here have traded in their cutlasses for coulters, but they're still rogues at heart.
Staelwyrn: I know a solid set of gear when I see it. Come back when you think you're more suitably equipped.
Staelwyrn: Let's have a look at you, shall we?
Staelwyrn: Oho! As long as you're this well covered, I won't feel any guilt throwin' you to the sharks.
Staelwyrn: Erstwhile buccaneers are an ornery lot. They rage in love for the sea, and care little for the laws of the land.
Staelwyrn: But they respect strength, and by the looks of you, I'd say you'll have little trouble gettin' their attention.


Lv. 5         Lurkers in the Grotto
Staelwyrn: Ah, Ferrinas. That aura of confidence tells me you've not been idle since last we met.
Staelwyrn: I hope I've read you aright, for I've a task that requires the attention of a capable adventurer. Might that adventurer be you?
Staelwyrn: Good to hear. Then I shall lay before you the sorry tale.
Staelwyrn: You will have heard rumors of the abductions. Aye, citizens have been disappearin' from every corner of Limsa Lominsa, as if plucked from the face of Hydaelyn, boots and all, by an unseen hand.
Staelwyrn: And what's this got to do with Summerford Farms, you might ask. Well, that remains to be seen, but it seems a collection of right unsavory fellows with azure-tattooed faces has been creepin' up to the edges of the fields and spyin' on my yeomen.
Staelwyrn: Now, I doubt anyone would enjoy bein' scrutinized by such savages at the best of times, but the farmhands are convinced that they're the kidnappers of rumor, come for their hides.
Staelwyrn: Needless to say, they're beside 'emselves with worry, and their work's sufferin' for it─which is the very last thing I need when my old crewmen are still gettin' used to their new jobs. 'Tis a struggle to get 'em to leave the farmhouse of a mornin'.
Staelwyrn: That is, as they say, where you come in. Would you be willin' to investigate these tattooed thugs for me?
Staelwyrn: Good lad. The sooner we get to the bottom of this, the sooner this place will start to resemble a workin' farm again.
Staelwyrn: I suggest you begin by havin' a look around Seasong Grotto. If reports are to be believed, our unwelcome visitors have occupied the place.
Staelwyrn: Be careful, though, Ferrinas─I couldn't say for sure what manner of miscreants we're dealin' with here. If they are the kidnappers...well, just be on your guard, all right?




[Investigate Seasong Grotto, Stone Monument]
???: I am the waves that bear.
I am the winds that guide.
???: I am the evening stars.
I am the morning sky.
I am born of the sea.
And there shall I die.
Cultured Conjurer: Thus reads the sailors' requiem carved into yonder stone.
Cultured Conjurer: Such words well describe the manner in which the citizens of Limsa Lominsa live their lives.
Cultured Conjurer: It is both a litany against misfortune for those out on the waves...
Cultured Conjurer: ...and a prayer that the souls of those who perish on land might find their way back to the sea.
Cultured Conjurer: Ah, you are the adventurer I've seen around Summerford Farms.
Cultured Conjurer: I thought myself on the trail of the kidnappers, but it would seem I have missed my mark.
Cultured Conjurer: ...Or perhaps not.
Cultured Conjurer: As I suspected, the aetheric disturbance here is no natural occurrence.
Cultured Conjurer: Nor is it a coincidence that the two of us should come here in search of those responsible for the disappearances only to be attacked.
Cultured Conjurer: But who stands to benefit from the keeping of this secret?
Cultured Conjurer: Such thoughts must wait. Let us attend to the task at hand, unpleasant though it be.




[Battle]
Cultured Conjurer: I sense something awry with this creature. Be on your guard.
Cultured Conjurer: Ware! The disruption of the aether draws others to the fray!
Cultured Conjurer: Keep your focus on the battle!
Leave the tending of wounds to me.
Cultured Conjurer: More unwelcome visitors?
Slay them quickly lest we be overwhelmed.


Cultured Conjurer: The creature falters.
Press the attack and the battle will soon be won.




[Found Crystal, Enter Realm]


[Exit realm]
Cultured Conjurer: Awake again, are we?
Cultured Conjurer: Aha. The poor creature's fury was kindled with cruel forethought.
Cultured Conjurer: See this blade? I found it in the goobbue's back.
Cultured Conjurer: I have seen knives of this kind before─they are most commonly used for the cutting of rope.
Cultured Conjurer: It would appear our culprits are seafaring men of some persuasion...piratical being the most probable.
Cultured Conjurer: In any event, you seem much recovered from your sudden...affliction.
Cultured Conjurer: I confess, I was rather taken aback when you collapsed at the very moment of our victory. Mayhap a surfeit of aether...?
Cultured Conjurer: I beg your pardon? A “towering crystal”? I'm sure I don't─ Oh.
Cultured Conjurer: Well, well... This has been a day of unexpected revelations.
Cultured Conjurer: I must continue my investigation.
Cultured Conjurer: In the meantime, I suggest you deliver this knife to your patron, along with a warning concerning the pirates' probable involvement in this murky business.
Cultured Conjurer: The days ahead promise little rest, I fear...
Cultured Conjurer: May our paths cross again under the light of the Crystal.


[Back to Staelwyrn]
Staelwyrn: Ferrinas! Right glad am I to see you safely returned!
Staelwyrn: My lads were all gabbin' about hearin' what sounded like all seven hells breakin' loose near the grotto, and I feared I'd sent you to your death.
Staelwyrn: If you were in the middle of that commotion, I hope it yielded somethin' of interest. I'd hate to think you'd risked your life for naught.
Staelwyrn: Hmmm... A blade pulled from the back of a creature you slew at the cave, eh?
Staelwyrn: Aye, I'd agree that such a knife would be part of any seafarin' man's kit.
Staelwyrn: I'm startin' to think that these ruffians are pirates, come to lure my farmhands back to a life of plunder. Chances are, they didn't take kindly to your appearance on their doorstep, and set a maddened goobbue on you.
Staelwyrn: Aye, the pirates have been addin' to their numbers of late. I'd best warn the lads and lasses in my employ to be on guard against their schemes.
Staelwyrn: ...Hm? You met someone else at the grotto? A woman with a strange contraption...? Ah...Y'shtola!
Staelwyrn: She's been in Limsa Lominsa for a good while now. Her studies of the aether often bring her out to Summerford, so her presence at the grotto is hardly unusual.
Staelwyrn: She's an odd-lookin' lass, I grant you, but she's not the kind to associate with kidnappers. You may take my word for that.
Staelwyrn: Where trust should be lackin' is in those yeomen of mine who have yet to wholly relinquish their pirate pasts. The temptation to return to the free-and-easy life of a buccaneer may prove too strong to resist.
Staelwyrn: You have my thanks, Ferrinas. If it weren't for the efforts of stalwart adventurers like yourself, this farm would be in a far worse state than it is.
Staelwyrn: Just you keep on lendin' your talents to those in need, eh? Help bring Limsa the brighter future she deserves.
[Treants Emerge]
Animated Pugilist: And this sort of thing happens!
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: It seems we have little choice...


[Battle]
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Do you want to get eaten!? Hit them harder!
Animated Pugilist: I'm trying, I'm trying!
Animated Pugilist: There's more! Be careful!
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: If you value your life, stay close!
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Well done! We're almost there!


[Found Crystal, enter Realm]
Hear… Feel… Think…
Crystal bearer…
I am Hydaelyn. All made one.
A Light there once was that shone throughout this realm… yet it hath since grown dim.
And as it hath faltered, so hath Darkness risen up in its stead, presaging an end to Life.
For the sake of all, I beseech thee: deliver us from this fate!
The power to banish the Darkness dwelleth in the Crystals of Light. Journey forth and lay claim to them.
By thy deeds shall the crystals reveal themselves to thee.
Only believe, for the Light liveth in thy heart.
Go now, my child, and shine thy


MAIN SCENARIO QUESTS - GRIDANIA 
Lv. 1                 Game Begins [lore] [c]
???: ...Oi!
???: Y'all right, lad?
Grizzled Passenger: You were moanin' in your sleep an' sweatin' buckets besides.
Grizzled Passenger: That'll be the aether, I reckon. Some are more prone to the sickness than others.
Grizzled Passenger: No need to fret, though. You'll soon get used to it.
Furry Creature: Feeling better, kupo?
Furry Creature: Aha! You can see us! I had a feeling you could, kupo!
Moogle: We're moogles, and we live in this wood.
Moogle: Normal folks can't see or hear us─which makes you special, kupo!
Moogle: And seeing as how you're special, maybe you can tell us something.
Moogle: The wood's been restless of late─lots of strange things happening. Have you chanced to witness anything suspicious, kupo?
Moogle: But of course you haven't─you've only just arrived.
Moogle: Well, there's nothing for it, then─we'll just have to keep looking. Nice to meet you, kupo!
Grizzled Passenger: Gridania's still a fair way off, in case you were wonderin'. Seein' as you're awake, how's about you keep me company till we get there?
Grizzled Passenger: Them young'uns don't much care for conversation, see.
Bremondt: Bremondt's the name, an' peddlin's me trade.
Bremondt: As for your good self, judgin' by your unusual garments, I'd say you were one of them new adventurers. Am I warm?
Bremondt: I knew it! Goin' wherever the wind blows, seekin' fortune an' glory─now that's what I call livin'!
Bremondt: So long as you can avoid dyin', I mean. Ain't no secret that adventurin's a risky business─these days especially.
Bremondt: What was it that first attracted you to it?
Bremondt: Well, if you ain't inclined to tell, I ain't about to pry. Might be as ol' Bremondt's a chatterbox, but he sure as hells ain't no busybody.
Bremondt: We all have a secret or three, don't we? Me? Dozens.
Bremondt: An' I'd rather they stayed secret, too─which is why I don't go stickin' me nose where it ain't welcome.
Bremondt: Just remember, though: there're more important things than fortune an' glory. Such as breathin'. Ain't no profit in bein' dead, an' that's a fact.
Wood Wailer: Halt! Go no further!
Bremondt: What's this, then?
Bremondt: Uwaaah!
Carriage Driver: Wh-What's going on!?
Wood Wailer: A skirmish has broken out up ahead with the Ixal! For your own safety, you must remain here until─
Wood Wailer: Bloody hells! We shall hold them here! Try to break clear!
Bremondt: That was too bleedin' close...
Bremondt: Nice of the Ixal to send us a welcomin' party, though, eh?
Bremondt: Jokin' aside, this won't be the last time you meet those feathered fiends, so just you take care, all right?
Bremondt: By the by, is this your first trip to Gridania?
Bremondt: Thought not! Ah, but I'll wager there've been some changes since your last visit. Allow a journeyed itinerant to teach you a few new things about your destination. Ahem!
Bremondt: The city of Gridania lies slap-bang in the middle of the Black Shroud─the biggest, lushest forest in all Eorzea.
Bremondt: Though it ain't near as lush as it used to be, sayin' that. Not since the Calamity laid half of it to waste.
Bremondt: The destruction prompted a herd of new nasties to move in, an' gave the Ixal unneeded encouragement. Birdman raids've become a daily occurrence.
Bremondt: Ah, at long last.
Bremondt: Behold Gridania, the forest nation blessed by the elementals!
Bremondt: An' here's where we part ways, son.
Bremondt: I'm off to the markets to deliver me wares, then it's back to the highroad for me.
Bremondt: Here, I want you to have this─by way of thanks for keepin' me company.
Bremondt: Hey─you never did tell me your name, did you? Well, here's an idea...
Bremondt: Become the sort of storied personage I can brag about havin' met, an' I'll consider us square.
???: You there! Yes, you!
Wood Wailer: Your face is not known to me. Newly come to the city, no doubt.
Bertennant: I am Bertennant, a Wood Wailer of Gridania.
Bertennant: It is my duty to protect our nation from her enemies while welcoming those who may yet prove her friends. Let us see which you are.
Lv.1                Coming to Gridania [lore]
Bertennant: Another green adventurer, I presume?
Bertennant: I thought as much. We cannot allow strangers to wander Gridania unchecked and untested.
Bertennant: Before you rush off and begin pestering every second citizen for work, I suggest you make yourself known at the Carline Canopy. That's the headquarters of the local Adventurers' Guild, in case you were wondering.
Bertennant: The Carline Canopy is the building you see behind me. Speak to Mother Miounne within, and she will take you in hand.
Bertennant: Make yourself known at the Carline Canopy, where the local Adventurers' Guild is headquartered. Speak to Mother Miounne within, and she will take you in hand.
Bertennant: So long as you are within Gridanian territory, you must abide by Gridanian laws. Go now, and do as I have instructed.
Honoraint: Ah! Give a man a bloody fright, sneakin' up on me like that...
Honoraint: Hm? Newly come to Gridania, are ye? Then I suggest ye continue on yer merry way to the Carline Canopy just behind me. Mother Miounne will want a word with ye.
Mother Miounne: Well, well, what have we here?
Mother Miounne: A wide-eyed and wondering young adventurer, come to put your name down at the guild, I assume?
Mother Miounne: Welcome. Miounne's my name, or Mother Miounne as most call me, and the Carline Canopy is my place.
Mother Miounne: As the head of the Adventurers' Guild in Gridania, I have the honor of providing guidance to the fledgling heroes who pass through our gates.
Mother Miounne: No matter your ambitions, the guild is here to help you attain them.
Mother Miounne: In return, we expect you to fulfill your duties as an adventurer by assisting the people of Gridania. A fine deal, wouldn't you agree?
Mother Miounne: To an outsider's eyes, all may seem well with our nation, but naught could be further from the truth. The people live in a state of constant apprehension.
Mother Miounne: The Ixal and various gangs of common bandits provide an unending supply of trouble─trouble compounded by the ever-present threat of the Garlean Empire to the north. And that is to say nothing of the Calamity...
Mother Miounne: Even now, the wounds have barely begun to heal. Ah, but I speak of it as if you were there. Forgive me. Five years past, Eorzea was well-nigh laid to waste when a dread wyrm emerged from within the lesser moon, Dalamud, and rained fire upon the realm. It is this which people call “the Calamity.”
Mother Miounne: Scarcely a square malm of the Twelveswood was spared the devastation. Yet despite the forest's extensive wounds, not a soul among us can recall precisely how it all happened.
Mother Miounne: I am well aware of how improbable that must sound to an outsider... It is improbable. But it's also true. For reasons we can ill explain, the facts surrounding the Calamity are shrouded in mystery. There are as many versions of events as there are people willing to recount them.
Mother Miounne: Yet amidst the hazy recollections and conflicting accounts, all agree on one thing: that Eorzea was saved from certain doom by a band of valiant adventurers.
Mother Miounne: Whatever else we've misremembered, none of us have forgotten the heroes who risked life and limb for the sake of the realm. And yet...whenever we try to say their names, the words die upon our lips.
Mother Miounne: And whenever we try to call their faces to mind, we see naught but silhouettes amidst a blinding glare.
Mother Miounne: Thus have these adventurers come to be known as “the Warriors of Light.”
Mother Miounne: ...Ahem. Pray do not feel daunted by the deeds of legends. We do not ask that you become another Warrior of Light, only that you do what you can to assist the people of Gridania.
Mother Miounne: Great or small, every contribution counts. I trust you will play your part.
Mother Miounne: All that's left, then, is to conclude the business of registration. Here's a quill. Scrawl your name right there.
Mother Miounne: Oh, and I would appreciate it if you used your real name─there is a special place in the seventh hell for those who use “amusing” aliases.
Mother Miounne: ...Coral Ferrinas, hm? And you're quite sure that isn't an amusing alias?
Mother Miounne: Very well. From this moment forward, you are a registered adventurer of Gridania, nation blessed of the elementals and the bounty of the Twelveswood. The guild expects great things from you.
Wood Wailer: Look at what just arrived─another godsdamned adventurer...
Mother Miounne: Don't you start with that. Adventurers are the very salve that Gridania needs.
Mother Miounne: The Elder Seedseer herself bade us welcome them with open arms. Do you mean to disregard her will?
Wood Wailer: Of course not! Lest you forget, it is my sworn duty to uphold the peace! Am I to blame if outsiders bring mistrust upon themselves?
Wood Wailer: You─adventurer! Mind that you do not cause any trouble here, or I shall personally cast you out of this realm and into the seventh hell.
Mother Miounne: Ahem. Pay that outburst no mind. He meant only to...counsel you. Suspicious characters have been prowling the Twelveswood of late, you see, and the Wood Wailers feel they cannot afford to take any chances.
Mother Miounne: As is often the way with folk who live in isolation, Gridanians are wont to mistrust things they do not well know, your good self included. Fear not, however─given a catalog of exemplary deeds, and no more than a handful of years, the locals will surely warm to you.
Mother Miounne: On behalf of my fellow citizens, I welcome you to Gridania. May you come to consider our nation as your own in time.
Mother Miounne: Now then, you may depend on old Mother Miounne to teach you a few things that every adventurer should know.


Lv.1                Close to Home [lore]
Mother Miounne: Let us begin at the beginning, shall we? Now that you are a formal member of the Adventurers' Guild, we must be sure you have a firm grasp of the fundamentals of adventuring. To that end, I have three tasks I wish you to perform.
Mother Miounne: Your first task is to visit the aetheryte. This massive crystal stands in the middle of the Aetheryte Plaza, not far from the Carline Canopy.
Mother Miounne: As a device that enables instantaneous transportation, the aetheryte plays a key role in the life of the ever-wandering adventurer.
Mother Miounne: Once you have located the crystal, all you need do is touch its surface. A member of the Wood Wailers will be present to offer further instruction.
Mother Miounne: For your second task, you are to visit the Archers' Guild.
Mother Miounne: There is no better place to learn the arts of the bow. Speak with Athelyna, and she will explain the benefits of joining the guild.
Mother Miounne: For your third and final task, I would have you visit the markets at the heart of Old Gridania's commercial district. There you shall find weapons and armor, and all the various items that an adventurer might need on his travels.
Mother Miounne: There is, however, more to the markets than buying and selling goods. Speak with Parsemontret, and listen well to his counsel.
Mother Miounne: The master merchant can be...uncooperative at times, so be sure to offer him one of my famous eel pies. Like so many men, he is much more charitable when his stomach is full. Here, I made a batch not long ago.
Mother Miounne: You have your tasks, Coral. May Nophica guide your path.
Mother Miounne: Ah, and one more thing: should you happen to come across any citizens in need, don't be afraid to proffer a helping hand.
Mother Miounne: I am certain they will be pleased to meet an adventurer in whom they can confide their woes.
Mother Miounne: Granted, the work they offer is unlikely to be of realm-shattering importance─but prove your worth and build a reputation, and in time folk will be more inclined to entrust you with matters of moment.


[Attune Aetheryte]
Nicia: Greetings, adventurer. I see you are faithfully following Mother Miounne's instructions.
Nicia: Allow me to offer you a bit of instruction myself. I am Nicia of the Wood Wailers, and I know a thing or two about the aetheryte─yes, that big crystal right there.
Nicia: Aetherytes are devices that tap into aetherial energies, and are primarily used as a means to travel swiftly from one place to another.
Nicia: Return and Teleport─the most common transportation spells─make direct use of the aetherytes and their connection to the flow of aether.
Nicia: And as these devices are found in almost every corner of Eorzea, any adventurer worthy of the name will wish to seek out and attune himself to each one.
Nicia: Truly, few things in this world are so useful to an intrepid explorer.
Nicia: But you need not locate them all at once. Before rushing out into the wilds, I suggest you start with the aetherytes found here in Gridania.
Nicia: Should you wish to learn more about the aetheryte or transportation magic, I am here to answer your questions.


[Visit Archers’ Guild]
Athelyna: Greetings, friend. You have found your way to the Archers' Guild. Do you seek to uncover the secrets of our art?
Athelyna: Ah, now that I think on it, you have the look of one who has received Mother Miounne's “gentle” instruction. Very well, I shall give you a brief introduction to archery and the Archers' Guild.
Athelyna: The skills practiced by our archers allow them to gauge an enemy's weaknesses from afar, and turn the tide of a battle with a single, well-placed arrow. Should you join us, you will be taught to do the same.
Athelyna: Archery as practiced in Gridania was born of two distinct styles of bowmanship.
Athelyna: The first was devised by the longbow sentries of the Elezen who once ruled the lowlands, while the second belonged to the shortbow hunters of the formerly nomadic Miqo'te. As you will doubtless be aware, both races ultimately came to call the Twelveswood home.
Athelyna: Though the two peoples began as rivals, they gradually learned to live together in harmony. During this time, they learned from one another, their two schools of archery intermingling to give birth to the art as it is known today.
Athelyna: For a time, the bow was used primarily for hunting. But as the hunters vied with one another to prove who was the better shot, there emerged a group of archers whose ultimate goal lay not in the practical pursuit of prey, but in perfection.
Athelyna: Thus was the Archers' Guild born from the ranks of the Trappers' League.
Athelyna: It is the way of the guild to promote greatness in archery through friendly competition. And the results of our methods can be seen in the vaunted archers of the Gods' Quiver, many of whom spent their formative years loosing arrows at the guild's practice butts.
Athelyna: I hope this gives you a better idea of who we are, and what we do here. Oho, did I see the spark of ambition flare within your eyes?
Athelyna: If you wish to draw a string with the finest archers in Eorzea, look no further than the Archers' Guild.
Athelyna: Before you can enlist, however, you must gain the approval of the guildmaster. Once you are ready to proceed, speak with me again and we can begin seeing about your enrollment.


[Listen to Parsemontret’s explanation on markets]
Parsemontret: By what right does a fledgling adventurer presume to address Parsemontret, Master of the Markets?
Parsemontret: You think you can stroll in here, bold as you please, and demand my hard-earned knowledge? Hah! A merchant does naught for naught, especially when dealing with would-be heroes.
Parsemontret: If, on the other hand, you had some tasty “morsel” to curry my favor, then I might reconsider your request.
Parsemontret: Come now, this whole encounter reeks of Miounne's handiwork─and more specifically her baking. Don't look so surprised, son─I smelled that eel pie of yours a malm away. Hand it over!
Parsemontret: Mmm, that flaky crust...just divine. Very well, I am a man of my word. Pay close attention, for I shall only explain this once.
Parsemontret: The aspiring adventurer need look no further than the Rosewood and Ebony Stalls. Both are but a short stroll from where we stand.
Parsemontret: If you mean to do battle, you'd best be prepared with a quality set of weapons and armor.
Parsemontret: Such goods are the province of the Rosewood Stalls, directly south of here. You will be pleased to learn that the merchants of Gridania are exceedingly particular when it comes to craftsmanship, so you needn't fear defective straps and the like.
Parsemontret: If it is potions and paraphernalia you seek, head north to the Ebony Stalls.
Parsemontret: The shelves there are lavishly stocked by widely traveled Ul'dahn merchants, and I may truly say that I have seen things amongst their myriad wares that I scarce knew existed.
Parsemontret: Do you follow me thus far? The first step in any purchase is to select the stalls that meet your needs. Then you may concern yourself with price and profit.
Parsemontret: There is little more I can teach you with mere words. Go, peruse the stalls, and see for yourself what wares they offer. There is no substitute for firsthand experience, after all, and I am weary of talking...unless you have another eel pie?


[Back to Mother Miounne]
Mother Miounne: The conquering hero returns. You have completed my little tasks, I trust?
Mother Miounne: The three locations you visited will feature prominently in your life as an adventurer─it is best you grow familiar with them as soon as possible.
Mother Miounne: And you took the time to listen to the woes of the citizenry? I cannot emphasize enough how important it is to lend your talents to one and all, no matter how trivial the matter may seem.
Mother Miounne: I am thankful that you are an obliging sort, Coral. It is adventurers like you who will win the hearts of the locals and pave the way for those who follow. I pray Gridania can rely on your aid in its struggles to come.
Lv. 4                To the Bannock [lore][c]
Mother Miounne: Coral, have you visited the Bannock on your wanderings?
Mother Miounne: It is a training ground found just outside the city where the soldiers of the Order of the Twin Adder are drilled in swordplay and other martial matters.
Mother Miounne: I mention this because an acquaintance of mine─a gentleman by the name of Galfrid─is an instructor there, and I think you may be of use to him. Go and introduce yourself, and find out if there is anything you can do to help.
Mother Miounne: Mind you do not stray far from the path─the Twelveswood is no place for merry strolls through the underbrush.
Galfrid: Greetings, Coral Ferrinas. Miounne sent word to expect you.
Galfrid: My name is Galfrid, and I am responsible for training our Twin Adder recruits.
Galfrid: I thank you for volunteering your assistance. The Twelveswood is much changed since the calamitous arrival of the Seventh Umbral Era five years ago.
Galfrid: The power of the elementals wanes, and the harmony of the forest gives way to chaos. A great abundance of life has been lost as the strong run rampant, stifling the weak and new-sprung.
Galfrid: Though it may not appear so to the eyes of an outsider, the Twelveswood is ailing─its once rich variety a fading memory.
Galfrid: For the citizens of Gridania, the restoration of the forest is a sacred duty. And it is my hope that adventurers such as you will offer to aid them in their struggle.
Galfrid: Listen to their requests, and do all that you can. May the elementals bless your endeavors, Coral Ferrinas.
Lv. 5                 Passing Muster [lore] [c]
Galfrid: I see you are eager to lend a hand, Coral. That is well. But I cannot in good conscience send you into the forest until I have established that your equipment is equal to the task.
Galfrid: It bears repeating that, in the five years since the dawn of the Seventh Umbral Era, many of the Twelveswood's creatures have transformed into vicious, bloodthirsty monsters. Venturing into the forest without the proper gear is tantamount to suicide.
Galfrid: I suggest you take some time to evaluate your equipment. Once you deem your armor to be of sufficient quality, present yourself to me for inspection.
Galfrid: Ready for inspection are we? Right, then! Eyes forward! Back straight!
Galfrid: Hmmm... Yes, I think you pass muster.
Galfrid: You would be surprised at how many young, promising soldiers get themselves killed by rushing off into the woods without first donning a decent set of armor.
Galfrid: Your equipment, however, should provide the required degree of protection. Consider yourself ready for duty, Coral.
Lv. 5                 Chasing Shadows [lore]
Galfrid: Ah, Coral. By your tireless efforts, you have proven yourself a friend to Gridania. I believe you can be trusted with sensitive intelligence.
Galfrid: I would assign you a mission of considerable import, yet the need for secrecy prevents me from disclosing its details until you have pledged your participation. I am authorized to tell you only that it concerns suspicious activity in the Twelveswood. Say that you will lend us your aid, and I shall proceed with the briefing.
Galfrid: Good. Time is of the essence, so listen well.
Galfrid: You will by now have heard that a suspicious individual has been seen prowling the Twelveswood.
Galfrid: And you may also be aware that Ixali activity has risen sharply in the region of late. What you may not know is that this increase coincided almost exactly with the first recorded sighting of the aforementioned individual.
Galfrid: Suspecting a connection, we tightened our surveillance in hopes of tracking down our unknown visitor. Alas, our quarry is proving to be exceedingly elusive─almost as if he knows our movements ahead of time.
Galfrid: But where whole units have failed, a lone adventurer may yet succeed. Acting independently and covertly, you may be able to close in on our quarry unnoticed.
Galfrid: Fear and anxiety are beginning to take their toll upon the citizenry, Coral. For their sake, I ask that you aid us in this investigation.
Galfrid: You have my gratitude. With your help, I am hopeful we will shed light upon this mystery.
Galfrid: Begin your search at Lifemend Stump. It is there that the majority of the sightings took place.
Galfrid: Be forewarned: my people cannot offer you support, lest our quarry catch scent of our presence and evade us yet again. Proceed with caution.


[Investigate Lifemend Stump, Magicked Blade]
???: Look! Someone's already here!
Animated Pugilist: Oh dear. Is that a sword in the stump? Bad idea. Really bad idea...
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Is this our dark stranger?
Moogle: No, no, not this one. Not even close, kupo!
Animated Pugilist: Hm? You know him, Kuplo Kopp?
Kuplo Kopp: Well, not exactly, but we did once share a carriage. Isn't that right?
Animated Pugilist: How are the readings?
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Same as the last. There is a disturbance here as well, and newly manifested at that.
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Kuplo Kopp seems convinced of your innocence. But if this isn't your doing, whose is it?
Animated Pugilist: Ever since the Calamity, the forest's been really sensitive.
Animated Pugilist: The slightest disruption to the aetheric flow…


 Light on all creation.


[Exit Realm]
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: You fainted. A surfeit of aether, no doubt.
Animated Pugilist: Hm? And what have we here?
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Our culprit, it would seem. An Ixal. And no ordinary Ixal, either─a chieftain.
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: That they would venture this deep into enemy territory... The beastmen may indeed be acting under orders.
Animated Pugilist: How are we feeling, then? Better? Good!
Animated Pugilist: Giant crystals? Can't say I've seen any... Are you sure you're feeling better?
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: ...Understood. Over and out.
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Kuplo Kopp. Please bear word of these developments to Brother E-Sumi-Yan. We shall soon return to give a full report.
Kuplo Kopp: Understood! Over and out, kupo!
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Here is where we part ways. Till next time, take care!
Animated Pugilist: I think that sword might be a clue! You should definitely pull it out and take it back to the Bannock!
Animated Pugilist: You don't suppose that adventurer could see Kuplo Kopp, do you!?
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: And this occurs to you NOW!?
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Yes. It seemed that way. Time will tell...
Animated Pugilist: Well, time will have to, because you won't! You never tell me what's really going on! Unless...you don't know what's going on either!
Short-tempered Thaumaturge: Bah! You'd like that, wouldn't you!?


[Return to Galdrid]
Galfrid: Coral! It is good to see you back!
Galfrid: One of our patrols sent word that you had been spotted doing battle with enraged treants. I am relieved to find you none the worse for the experience.
Galfrid: But tell me, what were you able to discover at Lifemend Stump?
Galfrid: A sword in the stump, and a dead Ixal? Hmmm...
Galfrid: I can say with absolute certainty that this blade is of Ixali origin. It is of a kind used exclusively in the beastmen's rituals.
Galfrid: The Ixal rarely set foot in the Central Shroud, so tight is our guard over the area. What purpose could have driven them to take such a risk? I fear something is afoot...
Galfrid: What's that? A dubious couple sporting peculiar spectacles? Hah hah hah!
Galfrid: So you have finally been acquainted with Yda and Papalymo! Lay your suspicions to rest─Gridania counts them among her staunchest allies. Both are scholars hailing from a distant land, and have been with us since before the Calamity.
Galfrid: Their garb may appear outlandish, and their exchanges baffling, but never once have they given us cause to doubt them.
Galfrid: Indeed, they often assist the Gods' Quiver and the Wood Wailers in their work─much as I hope you will in the days to come, Coral.
Galfrid: Although our unknown visitor eludes us still, owing to your efforts, we have acquired important intelligence on the Ixali threat. You have my gratitude.
Galfrid: We are fortunate indeed to have a capable adventurer such as you aiding us. I pray you will continue to serve the people of Gridania in whatever capacity you are able.
Lv. 6                Eggs over Queasy [lore] [c]
Galfrid: A word, if I may? Injuries to several of my men have left me shorthanded, and I require a capable sort to complete their unfinished duty.
Galfrid: The task is simple: put down as many of the local chigoe population as necessary to acquire eight of their egg sacs.
Galfrid: Having done so, you are to deliver them to Monranguin at Gilbert's Spire. He will answer any queries you might have. Now, I have other business to attend to.
Monranguin: Ah, you must be the adventurer standing in for our injured companions. Terribly unfortunate business, that.
Monranguin: It seems, however, that you had little trouble gathering the egg sacs in their stead. Excellent work. I shall have them sent over to the Trappers' League immediately.
Monranguin: Lest you wonder, these egg sacs are not destined for the dinner table! Members of the Twin Adder and the Wood Wailers are assisting the league by collecting the samples they need to check for signs of sickness.
Monranguin: The chigoe, you see, is one of the few creatures capable of transmitting the disease known as the Creeping Death. Until relatively recently, any Hyur who contracted this ghastly illness would almost invariably perish.
Monranguin: Indeed, a single outbreak once claimed the lives of a third of the Hyuran population here in Gridania. That was a long time ago, of course. With the medicines available to us now, the Creeping Death is not the killer it once was.
Monranguin: Even so, it is best to halt any new outbreaks before they occur. Thus we gather chigoe eggs on a regular basis in order to assist the Trappers' League with their ongoing research. Your timely assistance is most appreciated.
Lv. 7                 An Eft for Effort [c]
Galfrid: Coral, thank you for your assistance with the chigoe operation. Might you be willing to aid me in another matter?
Galfrid: Allow me to explain. The nearby river is home to a colony of black efts whom I sent a party of recruits to slay. Yet scarcely a bell after I had done so, the youngsters returned─hysterical yet noticeably unbloodied─and loudly bemoaned their misfortune at ever having been sent to contend with such “hells-born horrors.”
Galfrid: Pitiful. My great-grandmama could dispatch an eft with her walking stick and a harsh word. That such a task should cow a whole party of able-bodied men and women is beyond belief. I would have you show these quivering milksops how it's done: make your way to the river and put down four of the creatures.
Galfrid: Welcome back, Coral. You performed admirably.
Galfrid: I had my recruits watching from the banks as you dispatched the efts. It appears your skill in battle has inspired them.
Galfrid: Either that or they have no wish to be upstaged by an adventurer─it matters little which. What does matter is that they have resumed their training with renewed zeal, and that I have you to thank for it. I am in your debt.
Lv. 8                 Surveying the Damage [lore] [c]
Monranguin: Such an embarrassing turn of events... I sent a recruit from the Bannock on a surveying expedition only for the craven to turn tail and flee at the first sign of trouble.
Monranguin: This is not how we treat requests from the conjurers! And as if such a poor showing weren't bad enough, the lily-livered half-wit left behind the surveying equipment provided by Hearer Pauline herself!
Monranguin: While I attempt to instill some backbone into this so-called “soldier,” would you mind recovering the survey gear and returning it to Hearer Pauline at Gabineaux's Bower?
Monranguin: According to my recruit's tale of woe, there should be a set of survey records, a surveyor's rope, and two boxes of surveyor's instruments strewn about the interior of a cave to the south of here. <sigh> It's a wonder the damn fool didn't lose his boots... Ahem. Matron watch over you.
Pauline: Yes, may I assist you with some matter?
Pauline: Oh? But this is the equipment I left with the soldiers of the Bannock...
Pauline: Fled at the first sign of danger, you say? I see...
Well, all is not lost: it appears the recruit managed to complete the surveying assignment. The records are actually quite detailed.
Pauline: With the changes wrought by the Calamity, I thought it wise to send the Order of the Twin Adder on a number of expeditions to map the region's topography. As fortune would have it, the officers saw these tasks as an excellent opportunity to train inexperienced soldiers.
Pauline: We can no longer rely on our past knowledge of the Twelveswood. If we are to survive these troubled times, we must reacquaint ourselves with our surroundings, that we may better discern the threats we face. Stay vigilant, adventurer.
Lv. 9                Butcher of Greentear [lore] [c]
Pauline: If you might spare the time, Coral, I would have you thin the numbers of hoglets in Greentear.
Pauline: While these beasts have always called the Twelveswood home, their appetite has grown so insatiable of late that I fear they will devour every nut on the forest floor. The cycle of life cannot well sustain such gluttony.
Pauline: I must ask you to slay at least six of the creatures. Their sacrifice will be to the greater good of the Twelveswood, I assure you.
Pauline: Yes...the elementals rejoice at your actions.
Pauline: The life of the forest relies on a delicate balance, and the unchecked proliferation of beasts would mean a slow but certain death for the Twelveswood. It is our duty to correct such imbalance, and swiftly, even if it means shedding blood...
Pauline: Though it may seem trivial, you have performed a vital service this day. May the elementals bless your future endeavors.


Lv.9                A Soldier's Breakfast [lore] [c]
Pauline: A word with you, Coral. I hesitate to make such a dangerous request, but might you assist us in thinning the number of anoles on Naked Rock?
Pauline: In our efforts to commune with the elementals, we conjurers often find ourselves in the area. Of late, however, our meditations have all too frequently been interrupted by unprovoked anole attacks. Truly, the beasts grow more aggressive by the day.
Pauline: Their numbers have continued to grow since the advent of the Seventh Umbral Era, you see, forcing packs of the scalekin to come down from the mountains in search of food. If you could slay half a dozen or so of the beasts, that should lessen their need to hunt and also serve as a warning to the anoles to remain within their territory.
Pauline: But I am afraid you must do more than thin the existing population. If we are to truly break this spiraling growth, then we must also target their future offspring. Bring me four anole eggs, and you will have played your part in returning balance to this area of the forest.
Pauline: Ah, you have returned. Now might my brothers and sisters continue their meditations undisturbed. You have my thanks.
Pauline: As for these eggs, may I ask you to deliver them to Tsubh Khamazom at the Bannock?
Pauline: Anole eggs are both large and filled with nutrients─the perfect meal for a soldier. She will be more than a little pleased to see you, I should imagine.
Tsubh Khamazom: Who goes there!? Oh, Coral, it's you. Hm? Another delivery?
Tsubh Khamazom: I'm not certain I should be the one to─ By Nophica, these are anole eggs! The troops will be glad indeed to see these at table! And you say Hearer Pauline sent you on this errand?
Tsubh Khamazom: I hear the anoles are more numerous than ever, yet you appear to have managed the task with your skin intact. Your skill and bravery continue to amaze me, Coral.
Lv. 9                Spirithold Broken [lore]
Galfrid: Coral! Thank the gods you've come!
Galfrid: We have a potential crisis on our hands, and I would appreciate your assistance. Will you hear me out?
Galfrid: Listen well, for we haven't much time.
Galfrid: To the southeast of here lies a dungeon known as Spirithold. It was all but destroyed during the Calamity.
Galfrid: Desiring to offer the ruins back to the forest, a Hearer ventured inside to carry out the Rite of Returning.
Galfrid: Alas, it would seem something has gone awry. Word arrived just moments ago that the Hearer and his guards have been attacked by a towering shadow. Aye, you heard me true─a shadow.
Galfrid: On any other day, I would dispatch my best Quivermen to provide support, but I sent them to repel an Ixali incursion in the West Shroud nary a bell ago.
Galfrid: The timing of these events cannot be mere coincidence. I fear the Ixal somehow caught wind of our plans, and are attempting to disrupt the rite in an effort to weaken the bond between man and elemental.
Galfrid: They must not be allowed to succeed. And so I bid you go to Spirithold and do whatever is necessary to resolve the situation. Please, say you will help us.
Galfrid: I knew you would not let me down. You will have all the support I can muster.
Galfrid: Now, we are racing against time, so you had best make haste.
Alestan: Who goes there? An adventurer, is it?
Alestan: Here at Instructor Galfrid's request, you say? Thank the Matron!
Alestan: Doubtless you already know this, but a towering shadow manifested without warning and attacked the Hearer in the midst of the rite.
Alestan: Most of his party has been successfully evacuated, but five remain unaccounted for.
Alestan: Please find them, and see them out of harm's way.
Worried Wood Wailer: <groan> A great shadow...towering over me... What in the Twelve's good grace?
Worried Wood Wailer: A-An adventurer!? Please, you must save the Hearer!
Witless Wood Wailer: Galfrid...sent you?
Witless Wood Wailer: I am no longer...of use here. Pray help the Hearer...in my stead.
Overwrought Wood Wailer: Away, vile fiend! Away, I say! I defy you! I defy yooouuu!!! ...Uh? ...Oh! An adventurer!
Overwrought Wood Wailer: W-We were ambushed─ambushed in the midst of the ritual! And then... And then...I'm not sure what happened.
Cool-headed Conjurer: ...You were sent to help? I fear you are too late─the ritual has failed.
Cool-headed Conjurer: I must needs return to Gridania. The Seedseers must know of this.
Confused Conjurer: That thing was no elemental, but a being born of darkness.
Confused Conjurer: The Hearer languishes alone in the depths. You must help him!


[A Masked Mage peak as the adventurer check on the Hearer]
Masked Mage: O mournful voice of creation! Grant thou this humble stone a soul, that it may wake to life!


[Battle Golem]
???: You are strong. But are you strong enough to withstand this?
???: Impossible! Never has the golem been so sorely tested!


[After Battle]
Masked Mage: That the golem could be vanquished...
Masked Mage: That man is no ordinary adventurer.


[Papalymo and Yda appear]
Papalymo: Damnation! He has eluded us yet again!
Yda: Oh, fancy meeting you here! How are things?


[Flashback]
Papalymo: Hm? Whatever are you─
Yda: Shhh! More birds! This makes it how many times today? Seven?
Papalymo: Their movements are beyond our fathoming.
Yda: Hmmm. Do you think maybe...they're trying to summon their primal?
Papalymo: I hope not, for all our sakes. Yet we must be prepared for the worst.


[Flashback]
Papalymo: Withered. The same fate has befallen Emerald Moss.
Papalymo: It is as we feared: Dalamud's anomaly is affecting life in the Twelveswood.
Yda: You mean the disturbance in the aetheric flow?
Papalymo: The very same. The Garleans have a lot to answer for.
Papalymo: The imbalance they have created is plunging the land into chaos, just as Louisoix forewarned.
Yda: It's no wonder the primals have started appearing...
Papalymo: Time is against us, but there is still hope for the land.
Papalymo: We must hold fast to that hope and fight to the very last.
Yda: Agreed!


[Flashback]
Yda: Waaah!
Yda: Ack! Stupid things...
Papalymo: These stupid things happen to be the very latest in Sharlayan innovation! Show some respect!
Yda: But they're so uncomfortable and...and...ugly!
Papalymo: If you ask me, they're an improvement over that mask of yours.
Yda: <sigh> Hard to believe it's already been five whole years, isn't it?
Papalymo: Already? Five years is but a heartbeat in the life of the planet!
Yda: I suppose you're right... Now that I think about it, the Twelveswood's barely recovered at all, and the Gridanians still have the same old problems.
Papalymo: Aye, along with some new ones. Just in case the Ixal and Garuda weren't troublesome enough, the sylphs had to go and invite Ramuh, didn't they?
Yda: ...Do you ever think about those adventurers who fought alongside us? I do. And then five years seems like ages... I wonder what became of them.
Yda: Ah...
Papalymo: Yda, look.
Yda: Hm?
Yda: Golly!
...And this is what, exactly?
Papalymo: Yet another disturbance in the aether, and freshly manifested at that.
Papalymo: It seems to be emanating from Lifemend Stump. We must hurry!


[End Flashback]
Yda: Are you all right? Your eyes glazed over for a while there.
Papalymo: The good news is that the Hearer is unharmed. Somewhat dazed, yes, but whole of mind and body. The bad news...concerns everything else.
Papalymo: Lest you forget, the Twelveswood is the domain of the elementals; it is by their leave that man abides in the forest and avails himself of its bounty. The ground which the dungeon occupies is no different.
Papalymo: Having no more use for the dungeon, the Gridanians sent a Hearer to offer the place back to the elementals by way of the Rite of Returning, which is essentially an expression of gratitude.
Papalymo: Alas, he failed to complete the ritual for obvious reasons.
Papalymo: While the poor soul cannot be blamed for this, the fact remains that unless the elementals are given their due, they may well consider it a slight. And the very last thing the Gridanians can afford to do in these uncertain times is risk alienating the Twelveswood's eternal guardians.
Papalymo: But you have more than done your part. We shall see the Hearer to safety, and send for his peers to finish the rite.
Papalymo: In the meantime, please make your way outside and report to Alestan.
Papalymo: Ah, but where are my manners?
Papalymo: I am Papalymo, and the tactless woman beside me here is─
Yda: Yda!
Yda: Papalymo and I are surveying the Twelveswood together!
Yda: Pleased to meet you!
Papalymo: Yda, give me a hand, would you?
Papalymo: Wait. There is something...familiar about you. Could it be that you are...?
Papalymo: N-Never mind. Doubtless my eyes are playing tricks. Till we meet again!


[Return to Alestan]
Alestan: All this happened inside Spirithold? Twelve preserve us...
Alestan: Who was that masked mage, and by what dark ambition is he driven? So many things shrouded in mystery...
Alestan: Well, I shan't find any answers on my own. I must needs discuss this with Galfrid. The matter warrants a full investigation, if I am any judge, and that shall certainly be my recommendation.
Alestan: Your courage has saved many lives this day, adventurer. For this you have my deepest gratitude.
Alestan: Pray return to Gridania and seek out Miounne.
Alestan: I understand she wishes to thank you for your efforts on our behalf.
Mother Miounne: Welcome back, Coral. A little bird tells me that the Hearer and his party owe you their lives.
Mother Miounne: A tale for the tavern if ever there were one!
...It is only a shame that I must ask you not to tell it─for the time being, at least. Do I make myself clear?
Mother Miounne: Until the Hearers have made their will on the matter known, it would be best to avoid unsettling people with stories of walking statues.
Mother Miounne: Now then, you must have suitable recompense for your valiant service.
Mother Miounne: For the first half of your reward, I give you leave to make use of the accommodations here at the guild.
Mother Miounne: Arrangements have been made, so all you need do is speak with Antoinaut whenever you crave the comfort of a firm bed and a soft pillow.
Mother Miounne: For the second half of your reward, I offer you another path to fame and fortune: guildleves.
Mother Miounne: Guildleves are records of the various requests we receive from the citizenry. They outline all manner of tasks which ambitious young adventurers like you can elect to undertake.
Mother Miounne: Gontrant is our guildleve official, or “levemete,” here at the Carline Canopy. I have spoken with him regarding your knack for solving challenging problems, and he is eager to make your acquaintance.
Mother Miounne: By the way, have you perchance heard about the coming festival? It is truly a splendid occasion, looked forward to by young and old alike, and one I heartily recommend that you take the time to enjoy.
Mother Miounne: Don't be too disappointed if the recent troubles cast a shadow over proceedings, however. I fear nothing short of the mysterious interloper's apprehension can prevent that...
Mother Miounne: But we were talking about you, Coral. You have made Mother proud. I expect great things of you, young man!
Lv. 10        On to Bentbranch [lore] [c]
Mother Miounne: How is my favorite fresh-faced adventurer? Oh, do not scowl so─I speak out of habit. You've come a long way since first you walked through my door, and I'll not deny it.
Mother Miounne: As a matter of fact, I think it's about time you made yourself useful at Bentbranch Meadows in the Central Shroud.
Mother Miounne: Unlike the recruits you see at the Bannock, the men and women out at Bentbranch are fully occupied with their own work. As such, I imagine there are more than a few who would welcome the assistance of a rapidly maturing adventurer like yourself.
Mother Miounne: Bentbranch is also home to a very usefully situated aetheryte. It is, in other words, the perfect place for you to begin the next stage of your journey as an adventurer.
Mother Miounne: And what better time than the present!? Leave the city via the Blue Badger Gate, and continue to the southwest until you come to a bridge.
Mother Miounne: Cross it, and when you spy an aetheryte in the distance, you may congratulate yourself on having successfully found Bentbranch Meadows.
Mother Miounne: If you so fancy, you may also make use of the chocobo porter service, doubtless the safest way to get to your destination. Chocobokeep Cingur should not hesitate to lend his birds to a capable adventurer like you.
Mother Miounne: Oh, and be sure to introduce yourself to Keitha, the head chocobo wrangler, when you arrive.


Keitha: You must be the 'venturer Miounne sent word about. I'm Keitha, head wrangler 'round these parts.
Keitha: I've heard many and more things about you─good things, lest you worry.
Keitha: When the Elder Seedseer bade us welcome 'venturers, 'tis fair to say we had our doubts─till hard-workin' folk like yourself set about provin' us wrong, that is. Consider me a convert!
Keitha: Anyroad, you've a mind to help out at the ranch, have you? Good. We could always do with a hand or two to keep the place runnin' smoothly.
Keitha: As a matter of fact, I've a task right here that wants doin'.
Keitha: Let me know when you're ready to get busy. Oh, and you come highly recommended, so don't go lettin' no one down, eh?
Lv. 10        Feeding Time [lore] [c]
Keitha: Seein' as you're new 'round here, let's start you off with an easy job that'll help you get your bearin's, eh?
Keitha: It just so happens it's feedin' time for the chocobos. Grab yourself a few bunches of broad-leaf gysahl greens from the pile beside the field there, and stick 'em in the feedin' troughs.
Keitha: Bentbranch is a big place, mind, so don't you go missin' any. Off you trot, then.
Keitha: Thank you for dolin' out the greens, Coral. I trust you got a rough idea how the place is laid out while you were at it? Good.
Keitha: Here at Bentbranch, we nurture our chocobos from the egg to young adulthood. So you might say we have 'em for the duration of their “formative years.”
Keitha: 'Tis backbreakin' work keepin' the birds free of illness and injury, and I'm sure me fellow workers'll appreciate any help you can give 'em.
Lv. 10        You Shall Not Trespass [lore] [c]
Keitha: Seven hells! Some bastard Qiqirn has gone and broken one of me chocobo eggs!
Keitha: The filthy little thief was busy lootin' the barn when a guard startled it, promptin' the damn thing to drop the egg it was clutchin' and run. Some of the lads gave chase, bless 'em, but when three more of the vermin appeared, me lot had no choice but to turn back.
Keitha: Somethin' has to be done about those Qiqirn...
Would you mind headin' over to the Matron's Lethe and havin' a word with a soldier named Roseline for me? The ratmen nest in her neck of the woods, see... She'll know what to do.
Roseline: You're here on Keitha's behalf? Hm? I see. Broke one of her eggs, you say? And there were four of the creatures?
Roseline: The Qiqirn are a nuisance at the best of times, but we must now add trespass and chocobo murder to their list of transgressions... They have forced our hand. Our retribution must needs be swift and decisive.
Roseline: And who better than you to deliver it, adventurer? Find the lair to the west of here and make an example of exactly four Qiqirn scramblers. We can send no clearer message.
Roseline: The deed is done? Good. A grim task, but a necessary one.
Roseline: You have shown them the folly of inciting the wrath of those who consort with adventurers. Perhaps now the Qiqirn will think twice before giving in to their larcenous proclivities.
Lv. 11        Don't Look Down [lore] [c]
Osha Jaab: Ho there, adventurer. You seem light on your feet. Fancy a quick skip along the root of the heavenspillar here? I need someone to pick off a blue trumpet or two.
Osha Jaab: I know what you're thinking: it's naught more than a mushroom, so why the commotion? I'll tell you why. You allow that fungal menace to multiply, and within a moon they'll be covering the whole damn root and rotting the wood clear through.
Osha Jaab: Just watch your step while you're up there, though─the diremites on the ground won't waste any time adding insult to falling injuries.
Osha Jaab: Once you're done, head up to the top end of the root and report to Theodore. He'll be glad to hear someone's taken care of one of his more dreaded chores.
Theodore: Oh, you've cleared the root of blue trumpets? Wonderful! To be quite honest, I have this teeny-tiny problem with heights. <sigh> No, this is not my ideal posting, but we all do what we must.
Theodore: Keeping the root passable is an important job, you see. It's one of the few ways folk can traverse the Central Shroud since the Calamity all but split the area in twain.
Theodore: It is not, perhaps, the easiest pathway to walk, but there are those who believe the will of the Matron Herself caused this tendril of a heavenspillar to remain thus suspended, that it might serve the forest's people. I'm rather fond of the notion, myself.




Lv. 11        In the Grim Darkness of the Forest [Credits: Malys D’Nocturne] [c]
Theodore: It is─regrettably─my duty to stand watch over the road from here to Bentbranch Meadows.
Theodore: The ranch has become a veritable institution of Gridania, so any threats to its continued operation are taken quite seriously by the Wood Wailers.
Theodore: Which reminds me─mayhap it was my imagination, but I believe I caught a glimpse of some shadowy fellow not too long ago. Would you mind passing word to Roseline down below? I would go myself but, well...it's hard enough marshaling the courage to walk the root for my shift...
Roseline: A shadowy fellow? Hmmm...now that you mention it, I may have seen something.
Roseline: I dismissed it as a trick of the light before, but I thought I saw a shadow in the forest to the north. Still, I suspect it is nothing more than a Qiqirn thief on the run.
Roseline: If you must sate your curiosity, by all means investigate. Should you actually find something of note, I would like very much to see it.
Roseline: Hmmm? Have you found something?
Roseline: Remnants of a campfire and a forgotten bag...this could belong to any adventurer or traveler. And inside we have...a chocobo grooming brush and roseling oil?
Roseline: But wait─why would a traveler make camp here, when it would be far safer to beg the hospitality of Bentbranch Meadows?
Roseline: Bugger me, I think this belongs to that stranger said to be meddling with the chocobos! Thank you, adventurer. We have been lax in our duties, but no longer─I swear we will find this shadow.
[Next Quest: Lv. 11 Threat Level Elevated]
Lv. 11        Threat Level Elevated [c]
Roseline: We cannot allow other sentries to dismiss similar sightings─they must know what we have learned. To that end, I've prepared this letter containing everything we know about our mysterious stranger.
Roseline: I need you to show it to my comrades throughout the shroud. Once each sentry has committed the details to memory, have them write their name at the bottom for confirmation.
Roseline: Start with Elmar at the Bannock, then find Bernard at the eastern gates of Bentbranch Meadows. They ought to relay the information to the others.
Roseline: Finally, make sure Eylgar sees the letter. He stands watch within the stables, so if this stranger's aim is to harm the chocobos, Eylgar may have to personally put an end to it.
Elmar: You don't look like you're here for training...
Elmar: A shadowy figure... Understood. I'll pass word to the recruits as well as the sentries.
Elmar: Let me just make my mark...there, that should do.
Elmar: If you follow the road south, you'll find Bernard by the bridge to Bentbranch. Godsspeed, adventurer.
Bernard: You have business with me, adventurer?
Bernard: Roseline is right to be cautious. For this stranger to venture so close, yet go to such great lengths to remain undetected, is highly suspicious. They clearly have designs on Bentbranch.
Bernard: We appreciate the help. I should write my name here, yes?
Bernard: And...here, take it. You'll find Eylgar in the stables, past the aetheryte.
Eylgar: Mind the birds, adventurer. They get nervous around strangers.
Eylgar: What's this? A shadowy stranger near the Matron's Lethe... You've already shown this to Bernard and Elmar, I see. Good, good.
Eylgar: Then all that's left is to inform the staff here. Not everyone here is a Wood Wailer, true, but even our stableboys wouldn't hesitate to take up arms to defend these chocobos.
[Prev Quest: Lv. 11 In the Grim Darkness of the Forest]


Lv. 12        Ruffled Feathers [lore] [c]
Keitha: Seein' as you're here, I've got a favor to ask: gather me six seeds from those plantlike monsters they call roselets.
Keitha: The oil from them roselet seeds has a calmin' effect on skittish chocobos, see. Any wrangler worth her salt usually has a jar or two lyin' around.
Keitha: I thought the stock I had would last me a good while, but lately the birds've been as restless as a summer storm.
Keitha: Chocobos are sensitive creatures at the best o' times, and it ain't unusual for 'em to act a shade agitated all of a sudden... But this is somethin' else.
Keitha: You'll find them roselets I mentioned up near Galvanth's Spire. Go on now, time's a-wastin'.
Keitha: Did you have any trouble gettin' them seeds?
Keitha: Let's see here...one, two, three...yep, there's the full six. Nice big ones, too. We'll squeeze some good oil out o' these.
Keitha: I still don't have a clue what's been unsettlin' the birds, but whatever it is, hopefully the roselet oil will help calm 'em down a bit...


Lv. 12        Migrant Marauders [c]
Eylgar: You're quite the compassionate adventurer, by the sound of it. Well far be it from me to look a gift chocobo in the mouth─I have need of a capable man like yourself.
Eylgar: We received a peddler at the gates the other day─an excitable Lalafell that was sweating and swearing that he had been attacked by large winged beasts. Yet other than hornets, I know of no flying creatures in this region.
Eylgar: If there's any truth to what he said, it might prove problematic for other travelers. Follow the road south and see if you can find any evidence to support his claim.
Eylgar: And, should you find something, kindly tell Lothaire to patrol his area sometime instead of just standing beneath the spire and staring at the godsdamned road. In those words.


Lothaire: ...A northern vulture? Two? And they were defending a nest!?
Lothaire: Well, I, uh...perhaps we could omit that last detail from any official reports. I would rather not give Eylgar any further cause to be cross.
Lothaire: Thank you for slaying the beasts. You may rest assured that I will not permit this to happen again.
[Next Quest: Lv. 13 Skeletons in My Deepcroft]
Lv. 13        Skeletons in My Deepcroft [lore] [c]
Lothaire: I must admit that Eylgar is right, and that this road has grown too hazardous for travelers. Since you have shown yourself to be so adept at slaying beasts, perhaps you could be of further assistance.
Lothaire: I would have you journey to the Tam-Tara Deepcroft and slay the magicked bones which have escaped from within.
Lothaire: These abominations are beginning to wander as far as the main road, and I have had to rescue several wagons from their mindless assaults. Even a slight reduction in their numbers would improve the situation.


Lothaire: It is no small feat to face the walking dead. The road is much safer now, thanks to you.
Lothaire: Such an unnatural thing, for the fallen to rise again...and in such great numbers. Those who perished in the Calamity deserve to rest in peace, yet something or someone has roused them from their slumber…
[Prev Quest: Lv. 12        Migrant Marauders] [Next Quest: Lv. 13 A Hearer Is Often Late]


Lv. 13        A Hearer Is Often Late
Lothaire: I have another task for you, adventurer. I need you to head to the Hedgetree to the southwest of here and speak with Hearer Leonnie.
Lothaire: After tending to the Hedgetree, the Hearer was scheduled to board a boat from the Mirror Planks... Well, the vessel's departure time has come and gone, but there is still no sign of her.
Lothaire: Knowing how absorbed the Hearer becomes in her work, I am not unduly concerned. Armelle, however, was responsible for organizing Leonnie's transportation and is likely wondering if her wayward passenger is ever going to arrive. Perhaps a gentle reminder is in order?
Leonnie: Yes, what troubles you, my de─? Ah. Yes. The boat. I had quite forgotten.
Leonnie: Hm? Oh, my task with the Hedgetree is well and finished, but the elementals murmur of a malevolent presence in the vicinity of the Tam-Tara Deepcroft.
Leonnie: I must abide a while longer, that I might better divine the source of the elementals' distress. Please inform Armelle that I shall be late in arriving.
Armelle: You bear a message from Hearer Leonnie? An evil presence in the Deepcroft? That does sound grave, indeed.
Armelle: I shall organize a vessel for a later time, then. Perhaps a bell from now? Two? Better make it three, just to be safe. Thank you for your trouble.
Lv. 13        Lights Out [lore] [c]
Armelle: I am told that adventurers are valiant heroes who bite their thumbs at danger, and scoff in the face of death. Do such rumors hold any truth?
Armelle: I certainly hope they do, for I would ask you to confront the creatures known as marshlights.
Armelle: They began appearing in this area not long after the Calamity. Now, night after night, the creatures assail every living thing they come across with showers of fiery sparks.
Armelle: They seem fond of flames, and I dare not build a fire for fear of drawing them upon me. I shudder to imagine how much worse it must be for the poor Hearers... Their duties require that they ofttimes travel at night, you see, and they can scarce make do without their lanterns.
Armelle: But it is the marshlights' fondness for flames that may yet prove their downfall. In this pot, I have placed a smoldering coal. Use it to start a fire at Lilystone, and lure the creatures to you, putting them down as they arrive.
Armelle: Ah, yes, and be wary of the local, uh, “wildlife” as you make your way to Lilystone.
Armelle: The marshlights are no more!
Armelle: I witnessed you extinguishing their lights at Lilystone as I cowered here in the darkness. With so many slain, I may even muster the courage to start a cooking fire again.
Armelle: There is no reward great enough to express my gratitude, but this will have to suffice. Thank you, kind sir.
Lv. 13 Salvaging the Scene [c]
Armelle: Might you assist me with another matter, sir? A wagon that departed from Quarrymill was overturned on the road when some large, ill-tempered forest beast chose that moment to defend its territory.
Armelle: By Nophica's grace, the driver escaped without serious injury, but the wagon's cargo was not so fortunate. With none willing to risk another encounter with the creature, I can only assume the goods remain strewn across the ground where the incident occurred.
Armelle: Simply follow the road here to the south and you should come across the wreckage. Salvage what cargo you can, and deliver it to Keitha at Bentbranch Meadows if you would be so kind.
Keitha: You have a delivery for me?
Keitha: Ah, this's the shipment I was waitin' on from Quarrymill. I heard the wagon ran afoul o' some great monstrosity just up the path from the Mirror Planks, but I see you've managed to scrape together a few bits and pieces.
Keitha: Seems I can't get through two bells these days without hearin' some new tale o' horrors in the Deepcroft or bandit cutthroats prowlin' the woods hereabouts.
Keitha: Makes me wonder if me chocobos are safe at night, it does. If we're ever in need of a 'venturer's skills, I hope you'll be around to lend a hand.
Lv. 14        Leia's Legacy [lore] [c]
Luquelot: No! Oh, please gods, no! Leia's egg!
Luquelot: Coral, you must help me! I stepped out of the stables for but a moment, and when I returned it was gone!
Luquelot: I─ What was gone? An egg! Sorry? You are sure the chocobos will lay another!? Gah! You do not understand─the egg is extremely valuable! I must find it!
Luquelot: You will help me, won't you, Coral? Oh, thank you, thank you!
Luquelot: Someone must have made off with it. There can be no other explanation. I shall scour every ilm of the stable once more just to be sure. While I do so, I should be very grateful if you would ask the others if they noticed anything unusual.
Ewmond: See anyone actin' suspicious? I most certainly did, lad. A man, it was, runnin' off towards the Tam-Tara Deepcroft.
Ewmond: Hm? You say an egg was took? Then I'd say that there was yer culprit.
Ewmond: But why would anyone pinch a chocobo egg? Without the proper learnin', it's damn near impossible to get one to hatch.
Leodaire: A chocobo egg has gone missing? Hm, well let me think.
Leodaire: Now that you mention it, the chocobos were making quite a racket earlier. So much so, in fact, that I ran over to check on them, almost flattening a passing peddler in my haste. I didn't find anything out of the ordinary, though.
Leodaire: Hm? Could I describe the peddler? Oh...he was an Elezen fellow─didn't recognize his face. Seemed awfully twitchy. Oh gods, you don't think he...? Why in the hells didn't I accost him!?
Bernard: Have I seen any odd characters about? Aside from yourself, you mean? Not that I recall.
Bernard: I did see someone calming the birds, but only from a distance. I assumed it was Luquelot...
Bernard: But if you say he was away from the stables at the time...then who was that with the chocobos?
Luquelot: There can be no mistake, then. The egg was indeed stolen.
Luquelot: And from what you have told me, this was no simple robbery.
Luquelot: That the culprit should take only Leia's egg and disregard all the rest tells me we are dealing with someone well versed in chocobo breeding. I am sorry to say that the individual in question is like to be a citizen of my native Ishgard.
Luquelot: Leia, you see, was of the bloodline of Ouranos─one of the greatest birds ever to grace an Ishgardian stable.
Luquelot: Many a man in my homeland would give his right arm to possess one of Leia's eggs... Gods, I should have foreseen this! We must give chase at once!
Keitha: Hold your chocobos, Luquelot! If this egg thief's from Ishgard, like you say, why'd he go runnin' off towards the Tam-Tara Deepcroft? Unless I've got me mental map upside down, that's the opposite direction.
Luquelot: W-Well, yes, but...he may seek to lay a false trail, or...uh... Bah! The why of it is not important! Leia's egg is all that matters! Adventurer, I beg of you, hunt the scoundrel down and take back what he stole!
Keitha: Well, at least you ain't plannin' on chasin' after him yourself...wherever he's from.
Keitha: We may work wonders with our birds, Coral, but acts of derrin'-do ain't exactly our field. If you don't mind, we'll leave that end of things to you.
Luquelot: With luck, you may catch the thief on the road to the Tam-Tara Deepcroft, but do be careful─we cannot be certain he is working alone in this.


[Found the Egg with A Moogle]
Janremi Blackheart: <pant> <wheeze> I have caught you at last, you spiteful imp! Now hand over the egg!
Kuplu Kopo: You can't have it, kupo! This egg belongs to Luquelot!
Janremi Blackheart: Who in Halone's bloody fury are you? Ah, those sops at Bentbranch hired themselves an adventurer, did they?
Janremi Blackheart: Yet another complication. This farce has gone on long enough. Kill the moogle and the farmers' hireling, and bring me that damned egg!


[Battle]
Janremi Blackheart: Meddlesome wretches... Prepare to die!
Kuplu Kopo: You'll not have Leia's egg, kupo!
Janremi Blackheart: Ugh... He's tougher than he looks...
Kuplu Kopo: You're winning, kupo!
Janremi Blackheart: You'll feel this one, you obstinate cur!
Kuplu Kopo: Look out! He's up to something extra nasty, kupo!


[After Battle]
Kuplu Kopo: Thank you, kupo.
Kuplu Kopo: What's that, kupo? How did I come to be out here?
Kuplu Kopo: Ah, well, this egg here is Leia's. Leia is─I mean was a very special chocobo, in case you didn't know. Anyway, I was having a nap in the stables when that nasty fellow crept in and tried to steal it, kupo!
Kuplu Kopo: So I snatched it up as quickly as I could and made a run for it. I was planning to take it back to Bentbranch Meadows myself, but it might be safer if you did it. I'm sure Luquelot will be very happy to see you, kupo!


Luquelot: Do you have the egg!? Is it safe!?
Luquelot: Yes, it has the right coloring, the right weight... It is most definitely Leia's egg.
Luquelot: I know not how to thank you.
Keitha: You had me worried for a bit there, Coral. 'Tis good to see you and the egg back safe and sound.
Luquelot: ...So I was correct in my assumption that an Ishgardian was involved─albeit one who did not, in fact, make off with the egg. Well, I could hardly have anticipated the intervention of a moogle!
Keitha: Bugger me... It couldn't be the same one...could it?
Luquelot: Might you have encountered our unlikely savior before, Keitha?
Keitha: Could be, aye. One of 'em saved my hide back when the Calamity struck.
Keitha: I was in a part of the woods what we now call the Standin' Corses that day. Seemed like the whole bleedin' forest was ablaze, and I couldn't see a yalm in front of me for all the smoke. Well nigh given up hope, I had.
Keitha: Then, all of a sudden, a moogle appears out of nowhere, tugs at me smolderin' sleeve, and leads me straight to a bit of the wood where the fire hadn't taken hold.
Keitha: And now you know why the business is named “Moogle's Gift Mounts.” Seemed like the least I could do. I'd be dead if it weren't for that plucky little bugger.
Luquelot: Incredible. It may well be that the moogle has stood vigil over us ever since that day...
Keitha: Ha! We'd better get back to work, then. Wouldn't want to go lettin' our guardian angel down, would we? Coral, you have our thanks. Oh, and I believe Luquelot wants to give you a little somethin' for your troubles.


Luquelot: Leia's egg is irreplaceable. I cannot well express to you the depth of my gratitude.
Luquelot: And yet, I find that I am still troubled... While this whole regrettable episode unfolded, I bore witness to a sight that greatly concerned me...
Lv. 14 Dread is In the Air [lore] [c]
Luquelot: My thanks for your kindness earlier. I hate to impose again, but I have need of your assistance in another matter─one of grave import, I fear.
Luquelot: Of late, I have noticed that Ixali dirigibles have been appearing over the Twelveswood with increasing regularity. The frequency, however, does not bother me near so much as where they choose to fly─the patch of sky directly above the Guardian Tree.
Luquelot: The tree is a sacred site, or so I was given to believe when first I came to Gridania, and thus I naturally assumed that the elementals would not suffer the Ixal to profane it. Yet the birdmen have been coming and going as they please, with nary a sign of protest from the eternal guardians of the Twelveswood.
Luquelot: And it was that which set me to thinking... Ever since the appearance of the much-talked-about “suspicious individual,” many and more strange things have been occurring in the forest. Could it be that he did something to the elementals?
Luquelot: In case it proved useful, I have committed the details of my sightings to parchment, and would ask that you deliver the document to Mother Miounne.
Luquelot: Please make all haste─I have an irrepressible feeling that something terrible is about to happen.
Mother Miounne: Hello there, Coral. Word of your tireless efforts at Bentbranch Meadows has reached my ears. The folk there have naught but the highest praise for you!
Mother Miounne: You certainly have a knack for making Mother proud.
Mother Miounne: Keep up the good work, you hear?
Mother Miounne: Hm? A letter...from Luquelot?
Mother Miounne: I haven't the slightest inkling what this could be about...
Mother Miounne: Gods be good...
Mother Miounne: I have a mission for you, Coral. Suffice it to say, it is urgent.
Mother Miounne: I fear it may also prove dangerous, however, so you must be prepared.
Mother Miounne: Make what arrangements you can, and report back to me the moment you are ready.
Lv. 14 To Guard A Guardian [lore] [c]
Mother Miounne: Time is of the essence, so I shall speak plain.
Mother Miounne: Based on Luquelot's observations, the Ixal have designs on the Guardian Tree, and they mean to act soon.
Mother Miounne: The tree is the oldest living thing in this ancient forest, and it is held sacred by every forestborn Gridanian.
Mother Miounne: Should it come to any harm, the elementals would fly into a rage beyond pacifying. I dread to think of the chaos that would ensue.
Mother Miounne: There isn't much time. We must act quickly.
Mother Miounne: Coral, please see this letter to the hands of Bowlord Lewin, at the Seat of the First Bow in Quiver's Hold. Should the need arise, pray put yourself wholly at the man's disposal. I strongly suspect he will need all the able-bodied souls he can muster.
Mother Miounne: The fate of Gridania hangs in the balance. Go swiftly, Coral.


Gods' Quiver Bow: An urgent message from Mother Miounne? Very well, you may enter.
Lewin: So you are Coral Ferrinas, the adventurer of whom I have heard so much. I understand you wish words with me.
Lewin: Miounne has information on the Ixal, you say? Speak freely─you have both my ears.
Lewin: ...Matron forfend! They mean to defile the Guardian Tree?
Lewin: Before Nophica, I swear those filthy birdmen will not touch it─nay, not so much as a single leaf!
Lewin: Twelve help me! How can it be that neither the Wood Wailers nor the Gods' Quiver caught wind of this?
Lewin: I cannot help but think this plot bears the mark of the masked devil who has eluded us for so long. We must be wary─this incursion may be more than it seems.
Lewin: Ah, would that the Warriors of Light were still with us...
But this is no time for such idle thoughts. I thank you for delivering this message. You may assure Miounne that I will dispatch a unit of my best men to investi─
Gods' Quiver Bow: My lord!
Lewin: What is it!?
Gods' Quiver Bow: It's the Ixal, sir! The Ixal have amassed at the Guardian Tree!
Lewin: Already!? Bloody hells...
Lewin: Coral─Miounne believes you capable, and I can think of no better judge than she. Lend us your strength this day─aid in the defense of the Guardian Tree!


Gods' Quiver Instructor: The Bowlord sent you, yes? Good to have you with us!
Gods' Quiver Instructor: The birdmen have completely surrounded the Guardian Tree, and their calls grow more urgent by the minute.
Gods' Quiver Instructor: Whatever it is they mean to do, we cannot let them go through with it. They must be stopped, no matter the cost!


Ixali Occultists: O mournful voice of creation!
O mournful voice of time!


[A dark red aura surrounding the Chieftain]
Ixali Chieftain: Squaaawk! Attend me, all!
Ixali Chieftain: To us, this forest, Tinolqa, belongs!
Ixali Chieftain: Wisdom of Paragons, we possess! To our former glory, restore us it will!
Ixali Chieftain: From this tree, a great crystal we take! Unto Garuda, an offering we shall make!
Ixali Chieftain: Unfeathered ones and elementals, banish we shall! Our ancient home, reclaim we will! Squaaawk!
Lewin: First squad, left flank. Second and third, right flank.
Lewin: The rest, form the main host with me. It is high time we reminded our Ixal guests why we Quivermen are to be feared!
Lewin: This position is yours, adventurer. May the elementals keep you!
Ixali Chieftain: Squawk!?
Ixali Chieftain: Interrupt us, you dare!? In your own blood, you shall bathe!


[Battle]
Galfrid the Gallant: The enemy chieftain is mine!
Miraudont the Madder: We shall engage the main flock!
Galfrid the Gallant: Another wave!? Where are they coming from!?
Quzal Huatotl the Shrieker: Wisdom of Paragons, almighty is!
Perish, unfeathered ones shall!
Gods' Quiver Bow: I was...careless...
Quzal Huatotl the Shrieker: Creature of the abyss! Mine enemies, strike down!
Galfrid the Gallant: A voidsent!? Th-This bodes ill!
Miraudont the Madder: Hold fast! We almost have him!




[Battle End]
Wood Wailer: Impressive work, adventurer.
Wood Wailer: The Bowlord bids you hold this position. Enemies may yet lurk near, so stay on your guard.
Wood Wailer: We go to bolster the left flank, where the battle yet rages.
Masked Mage: The source of his strength becomes clear...
Masked Mage: You may have bested the golem, but you will not fare so well this day.
Masked Mage: O mournful voice of creation! Send unto me a creature of the abyss, my thrall to command, that I may smite mine enemies!
Masked Mage: Your very being imperils the plan. You cannot be suffered to live.


[Battle]
Masked Mage: Soon, you shall take your vile gifts to the grave!
Masked Mage: Mwahahaha! Writhe!
Writhe as the venom eats its way through your veins!
Masked Mage: How is this possible...?
Papalymo: I trust you won't object to our assistance!
Yda: Looks like you could do with a hand!
Masked Mage: Unwelcome guests... No matter, all shall fall before me!
Masked Mage: Whence comes your strength!?
Papalymo: It is past time we finished this!
Yda: Come on! We're almost there!


[Finished Battle]
Masked Mage: Unnngh... That the wisdom of Paragons should be brought low...by mere mortals...
Papalymo: ...Paragons?
Yda: That's what I heard.
Papalymo: The Bringers of Chaos...or Ascians, to give them their proper name.
Papalymo: It would seem our suspicions were correct─it is they who have been manipulating the beast tribes.
Lewin: Coral, are you unharmed!? Had I known this creature was near, I would have sent men, not called them away!
Gods' Quiver Bow: There is no mistake, sir─he is the one who stirred the Ixal from their nest. Our intelligence was reliable.
Lewin: So this is the man who has eluded us for so long?
Yda: Right! We finally got him!
Papalymo: We sensed an ominous presence, and came here as swiftly as our legs would carry us.
Yda: Well, it's good to know what we're up against, anyway.
Lewin: My thanks as ever, friends.
Lewin: Quivermen! Move out!
Lewin: To say you played an instrumental role in the success of this mission would scarcely do justice to your efforts this day, adventurer. Upon your return to Gridania, pray visit me at Quiver's Hold. I will see to it that you receive the thanks you are due.


Yda: Hmmm...you're probably wondering why we always seem to appear when there's trouble, right?
Yda: Well, trust me when I tell you that it's almost never our fault. Despite what it looks like, Papalymo and I are actually helping the Gridanians. And we've been doing so for a good few years, too. Oh! Did I mention that we're not from around here?
Yda: Hm? Why, yes, we are Sharlayans! However did you know?
Papalymo: So I wasn't mistaken...
Yda: Mistaken? About what?
Papalymo: Nothing. Nothing at all.
Yda: Awww! You always do that! Mumble something loaded with meaning, only to keep it to yourself when someone asks! It's unfair! And it's especially unfair when the someone is me!
Papalymo: Oh, do calm down! I'll tell you later.
Yda: Hmph! I bet you won't. Anyway, all's well that ends well.
Papalymo: ...Quite. We'd best be on our way.
Yda: See you later!


Lewin: I have awaited your return, Coral. Allow me to thank you again for helping us to defend the Guardian Tree.
Lewin: Not only did you put the invading Ixal to rout─you confronted the masked mage and his fell minion, and emerged the victor.
Lewin: I have good men and women under me, none of whom give me cause for complaint─but you, Coral, are a class apart.
Lewin: Your strength, your determination, your heart...
Lewin: You have all the makings of a great adventurer. Miounne is seldom mistaken in her appraisals, and she is plainly not mistaken now.
Lewin: Gridania is stronger for your presence. The Elder Seedseer will doubtless be pleased to learn that a capable adventurer like you has come to us.
Lewin: Once more, I thank you. Owing to your valor, disaster has been averted.


[Kan-E-Senna entered the room]
Kan-E-Senna: I am come to express my gratitude for your valiant efforts before the Guardian Tree.
Kan-E-Senna: I am informed that an adventurer of singular talent now walks amongst us. You are he, are you not?
Kan-E-Senna: My name is Kan-E-Senna, and it is my solemn charge to watch over all who call Gridania home.
Kan-E-Senna: Well met and well come to our fair nation.
Kan-E-Senna: It was your valor that won us the day, I believe. On behalf of all Gridanians, I offer you my humblest thanks.
Kan-E-Senna: This gift I present to you as a small token of my gratitude. I hope that you will ever remain a friend to Gridania.
Kan-E-Senna: Greenbliss is coming. It is an age-old ceremony to renew the bond between man and elemental.
Kan-E-Senna: Over the centuries, it has blossomed into a joyous festival encompassing Gridanians from every walk of life.
Kan-E-Senna: I should be most gratified if you would participate in the ceremony as Emissary.
Lewin: Such a great honor.
Kan-E-Senna: I look forward to seeing you on that most joyous of days.
Kan-E-Senna: Till then, fare you well. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.
Lv. 14 Festive Endeavors [lore] [c]
Lewin: None in Gridania can doubt your worth, Coral...
Lewin: But to receive such praise from the Elder Seedseer herself!
Lewin: And nor is that the half of it! She chose you to play the role of Emissary, for gods' sakes! You! An outsider! Do you have any idea what this means!?
Lewin: <sigh> But of course you don't. You are not forestborn...which is rather the point. Mistake me not, I think you worthy, but your selection is all but unprecedented. And I'll wager you have not the faintest inkling what is required of you...
Lewin: There are preparations that the Emissary must needs complete ahead of time. I suggest you consult Miounne regarding the matter─she is overseeing the arrangements for the event.
Lewin: Now, you had best get going─the ceremony cannot commence without the Emissary.
Oh, and, Coral...don't make a hash of this!


Mother Miounne: Well, well, if it isn't the Emissary himself! Had I known you were coming, I would have baked a pie!
Mother Miounne: You truly are full of surprises, Coral. Next you'll be telling me you're one of the Warriors of Light, back from a half-decade long holiday!
Mother Miounne: But let's speak of preparations. As you doubtless already know, Greenbliss is an age-old ceremony for strengthening the bond between man and elemental. These days, though, the name also refers to the festival at large.
Mother Miounne: In the ceremony, the Emissary serves as a conduit─a bridge between the people and the guardians of the Twelveswood. Suffice it to say, it is no small responsibility─nor does the Elder Seedseer choose mankind's representative on a whim.
Mother Miounne: Seldom in history have non-forestborn been chosen for the role─which should give you an idea of the magnitude of the honor being accorded you.
Mother Miounne: For your part, you are required to wear a ceremonial artifact, which is presently in the keeping of Timbermaster Beatin.
Mother Miounne: Go to the Carpenters' Guild and collect it from the man, then return to me for further instructions.


Beatin: So you are the Emissary-to-be. Miounne sent word that you would be coming to collect the ceremonial artifact.
Beatin: The good news is that it's ready─painstakingly crafted by these very hands, and from the rarest of materials.
Beatin: Take it, along with this warning: get so much as a scratch on the thing, and I shall make an unceremonial artifact out of you.


Mother Miounne: Back from your trip to the Carpenters' Guild? Let's see what you have in that box.
Mother Miounne: Ahhh...this is by far the finest Monoa mask I have ever laid eyes upon. The timbermaster has truly outdone himself this time.
Mother Miounne: In case he didn't mention, the mask is crafted from consecrated lumber rendered up by the Guardian Tree, solely for use in the ceremony. In other words, it is priceless─Mother bids you to handle it with care.
Mother Miounne: And with that, your preparations are complete. The venue should just about be in order as well. If you have any questions, now's the time to ask them.
Lv. 14 Renewing the Covenant [lore] [c]
Mother Miounne: Now that you have the Monoa mask, all that's left is to participate in the ceremony.
Mother Miounne: Perchance you are feeling nervous, but never fear─despite all the pomp surrounding the role, there really is nothing to being Emissary.
Mother Miounne: All you are required to do is wear the mask, stand up straight, and look dignified. The more involved aspects of the proceedings will be handled by others. Simple, no?
Mother Miounne: The ceremony will be held at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre. When you are ready, make yourself known to the caretaker there─a woman named Estaine.
Mother Miounne: Oh, and be sure to wear your mask or she may not recognize you. Now, off you go, Coral, and good luck!


Estaine: Ah, you must be the Emissary.
Estaine: I see you have come prepared. That is well.
Estaine: I have been instructed to escort you to your place. Please follow me.


[Kan-E-Senna walks into the Mih Khetto’s Amphitheatre filled with audience, the Emmissary followed behind her. Yda, Papalymo and Kuplu Kopo were there to witness the ceremony]
Kan-E-Senna: May he find favor with the elementals!
Kan-E-Senna: This radiance...
Kan-E-Senna: Could it be...a Crystal of Light?
Kan-E-Senna: Tell me true─has the Mothercrystal revealed Herself to you? Did you bask in Her light?
Kan-E-Senna: Have you perchance experienced sensations akin to aether sickness of late?
Kan-E-Senna: That Hydaelyn would speak directly to this man...
Kan-E-Senna: There once were dauntless adventurers who fought in the name of Eorzea.
Kan-E-Senna: When the primals threatened to bleed the land dry, these brave men and women rose to face them. When the Garlean Empire resumed its war of conquest, they rushed to the realm's defense.
Kan-E-Senna: And when it was foretold that Dalamud would fall, they fought with all their strength to deliver us from certain doom.
Kan-E-Senna: Yet as strong and as brave as they were, they─like so many─disappeared amidst the flames at Carteneau.
Kan-E-Senna: None have forgotten the heroes who gave all for the sake of a realm not their own.
Kan-E-Senna: Yet when we try to recall their names, we find the pages of our memories are blank, as if bleached by the sun.
Kan-E-Senna: And when we try to recall their faces, we see them only in silhouette, as if they stood betwixt us and a blinding glare.
Kan-E-Senna: Hence have these heroes come to be known as the Warriors of Light.
Kan-E-Senna: Beholding you, illuminated by the glow of the Crystal, I could not help but be reminded of them.
Kan-E-Senna: The Crystal has chosen you for a purpose.
Kan-E-Senna: Trust to its guiding light, and all shall be revealed to you in good time.
Kan-E-Senna: Though none can say for certain what the future will bring, it is my belief that you may yet play a telling role in the tale of this great realm.
Kan-E-Senna: ...For the power of the Echo resides within you.


[Vision Start]
Raubahn: Flames, to the fore!
Raubahn: Victory belongs to the bold! Show those imperial whoresons what we're made of!
Merlwyb: The left flank buckles! Divert the Barracudas!
Merlwyb: Bid 'em hold that position though it cost 'em their lives!
Kan-E-Senna: The Yellow Serpents are in need of succor. Pray send the White Wolves to their aid.
Kan-E-Senna: The adventurers risk life and limb for our cause. We must not fail them.


[Kan-E-Senna discovered sensed and saw silhouette on the far mountain behind her]
Merlwyb: Is aught amiss?
Kan-E-Senna: No... It is nothing.


[A cannon strikes the group and blocked by the barrier]
Raubahn: The barrier won't go down so easily! Eyes forward!
Kan-E-Senna: We are being watched…


[After Bahamut’s unleashed]
Raubahn: Raging Bull calling Blood Thorn! Blood Thorn, respond! Respond, damn you!
Raubahn: Arrrgh!!!
Linkpearl: Raging Bull! This is Mad Snake! Respond!
Raubahn: Ryder!? This is Raging Bull! What news!?
: We're surrounded by a blaze! There's no way out! Gods preserve, what is that thing!?
Raubahn: What's going on!? Speak to me!
: Godsdammit! We cannot hold much longer!
: AaaaaaAAAAAAAAAH!!!
Raubahn: Mad Snake!? Mad Snaaaaaake! Answer me!
Raubahn: Damn it! Damn it all to the seventh hell!
Merlwyb: What of the Barracudas? Can they not be reached?
Storm Runner: Sorry, Admiral─shell's not workin'!
Kan-E-Senna: What of our own?
Serpent Runner: I cannot say, my lady! That monstrosity appears to be disrupting our communications!
Kan-E-Senna: We must keep trying. Call till they respond.
Serpent Runner: Yes, my lady!
Kan-E-Senna: Admiral, General─we can do no more. We must give the order to withdraw.
Raubahn: I will not forsake Louisoix!
Kan-E-Senna: General, please! Victory may belong to the bold, but there will be no victor this day!
Kan-E-Senna: You know this to be true. Let us not sacrifice lives in vain.
Kan-E-Senna: The adventurers fight bravely, but to no avail. Let them withdraw, and let us be the ones to stand with Louisoix.
Merlwyb: Belay previous orders! All Maelstrom units are commanded to fall back, effective immediately!
Merlwyb: Give the Foreign Levy priority! Let the main host cover their retreat, and bring up the rear!
Raubahn: Damn it... Relay the order: all Flames are to withdraw.
I don't care if our linkshells are useless!
Raubahn: You still have a working pair of legs, don't you!? Well, use 'em, you bloody half-wit!
Kan-E-Senna: The outcome of this battle was long since decided.
Kan-E-Senna: Better to retreat now, than risk a massacre.
Kan-E-Senna: This dark, stifling presence... Who...or what...?
Kan-E-Senna: We go to take our place beside Archon Louisoix! To your positions!


[On the Mountain]
???: That I should live to behold Bahamut once more...
???: Magnificent. The aeons of imprisonment have only made him hungrier.
???: I am aware of them. Pay them no mind. They are powerless to act.
???: It has begun. Soon the planet will regain its true form.
???: Ahahaha... Ahahahahaha!


[Vision End]
Mother Miounne: Ah! Look who's back in the land of the living!
Mother Miounne: Hm? You mean to say you don't remember a thing?
Mother Miounne: You collapsed in the middle of the ceremony─gave us all a good fright. So we carried you back here. I must say, you're heavier than you look!
Mother Miounne: You've hardly stopped of late─your exertions must have caught up with you.
Mother Miounne: But you adventurers are nothing if not resilient! Seeing as the worst is past, I shall take my leave and return to my duties.
Mother Miounne: Oh, I almost forgot─the Elder Seedseer told me she'd like to see you when you felt well enough.
Mother Miounne: The gentle soul was almost as worried about you as I was, bless her. When you're back on your feet, be sure and visit her at the Lotus Stand.


Silent Conjurer: Ah, you are Coral Ferrinas, are you not? I bid you welcome, sir. The Elder Seedseer left word that you would be joining her at the Lotus Stand. May I show you in?
Kan-E-Senna: I have looked forward to your coming, Coral. But tell me, are you recovered?
Kan-E-Senna: I am most glad of that. Now, I hope you will not doubt the earnestness of my concern...but I would ask a favor of you. Nor can I deny that I summoned you here in part with this in mind. Know, however, that I proceed only upon the understanding that you are rested and well.
Lv. 15 The Gridanian Envoy
Kan-E-Senna: Thank you for hearing me out.
Kan-E-Senna: I have written a letter to my counterparts in the Eorzean Alliance.
Kan-E-Senna: The Battle of Carteneau and the Calamity that followed claimed countless souls, and left countless more bereft and alone. In the dark days that followed, many were the survivors who thought themselves less fortunate than the dead.
Kan-E-Senna: Five years have come and gone, but the land and the people still bear the wounds of the devastation.
Kan-E-Senna: Nor are we any closer to learning the fate of the Warriors of Light.
Kan-E-Senna: Yet so long as we live, never must we give up hope. We owe this to those who laid down their lives that we might behold another dawn.
Kan-E-Senna: In remembrance of them, a memorial service will soon be held upon the anniversary of the Battle of Carteneau. This missive bears the details of that service.
Kan-E-Senna: You graciously accepted the part of Emissary in the recent ceremony.
Kan-E-Senna: Should you be so willing, I would now make you my envoy, and have you bear my message to our allies.
Kan-E-Senna: Your dedication to the people of Gridania rouses fond memories in me, and I would choose no other for the role. Will you do me this favor?
Kan-E-Senna: Humbly, I thank you.
Kan-E-Senna: As you are no doubt aware, our partners in the Eorzean Alliance lie some considerable distance away. Nor are Ul'dah and Limsa Lominsa close to one another.
Kan-E-Senna: Yet fear not, for I have no intention of subjecting you, mine own newly anointed envoy, to a journey which would take weeks by land.
Kan-E-Senna: No, I mean for you to travel by air. Receive of me this airship pass. With it, you may make use of the skyways that connect the three city-states of the alliance.
Kan-E-Senna: The airship landing is situated upon the lower floor of the Carline Canopy. Simply show your pass, and you will be admitted to the departure area. Before you embark upon your journey, however, you would do well to seek the worldly wisdom of Miounne. Few forestborn Gridanians know more of the lands beyond the Twelveswood than she.
Kan-E-Senna: In better times, airships were available for the convenience of one and all. Alas, the risk that our crafts may fall to imperial attack has forced a reduction in the number of flights.
Kan-E-Senna: Consequently, it has become necessary to restrict air travel only to those whose need is great. Such individuals may petition the relevant parties to be issued an airship pass. As you may have deduced, I myself am one such party.
Kan-E-Senna: ...Yet I was not alone in desiring that you be granted the privilege of air travel.
Kan-E-Senna: Such is the potential you show.
Kan-E-Senna: We have no doubt but that you will reward our faith in you, Coral.
Kan-E-Senna: By the power vested in me, I bid you journey forth as my envoy into the great realm of Eorzea.
Kan-E-Senna: Walk her fields, brave her seas, and strive to know her better.
Kan-E-Senna: And wheresoever you go, go without fear, for the path shall ever be revealed to those who are true of heart.
Kan-E-Senna: Guided by the Crystal's light, set forth, and discover your destiny.


Mother Miounne: 'Tis good to see you up and about again, Coral. Tell me, did you pay the Elder Seedseer a visit as I bade?
Mother Miounne: Appointed personal envoy!?
Mother Miounne: And now you are to bear the Elder Seedseer's missive to our allies...
Mother Miounne: Well! It seems you've made an impression on the great woman! I can't argue with her judgment, though. You've earned this honor with tireless hard work, and anyone who says you don't deserve it had better not do so in my hearing!
Mother Miounne: I find myself praising you often of late, but Mother is truly proud of you.
Mother Miounne: Short of a Warrior of Light, I can imagine no better adventurer to represent us─and that, my lad, is some compliment!
Mother Miounne: But I've flattered you enough for one day. And I don't want your head to get too big, or you'll struggle to lug it around the realm. Speaking of which, Eorzea is a big old place.
Mother Miounne: Now that you have an airship pass, you can really start to broaden your horizons. The sky's quite literally the limit.
Mother Miounne: Even if your errand didn't call for it, I would strongly suggest visiting the two other city-states of the Alliance before you go anywhere else. They are, of course, Limsa Lominsa, city of pirates, and Ul'dah, jewel of the desert.
Mother Miounne: Once you've acquainted yourself with them, you can turn your sights on whichever lesser-trodden region takes your fancy.
Mother Miounne: The Calamity changed the face of Eorzea, and much of her now lies in shadow, beyond man's ken. It's a veritable playground for a wide-eyed adventurer like your good self.
Mother Miounne: Mind you, it won't all be fun and games.
Mother Miounne: Each nation faces its fair share of problems, from internal strife to conflict with the beast tribes and their primals. So don't be too surprised if you find yourself embroiled in the odd unsavory situation on your travels.
Mother Miounne: But no matter what difficulties you encounter, I am confident that you will pull through, and emerge the stronger for the experience.
Mother Miounne: These are interesting times for Eorzea, Coral. It's been five years now since the Calamity, but folk are finally beginning to look to the future.
Mother Miounne: A period of great change is upon us, and you have a part to play in it. And if that prospect doesn't excite you, I don't know what will!


Lionnellais: Greetings, good sir. This is the reservation counter for Limsa Lominsa-bound flights.
Lionnellais: Oh, are you not Coral Ferrinas, the Elder Seedseer's personal envoy? We at Highwind Skyways are honored to serve you! Will you be flying with us today?


Airship Attendant: Attention, all passengers: the airship bound for Limsa Lominsa is about to depart. Please make your way to the boarding gate.


[Ship Flew]
Mother Miounne: Farewell, Coral.
Mother Miounne: One day, minstrels will sing of your deeds.
Mother Miounne: May you ever walk in the light of the Crystal.


[Castrum Occidens, Present Day]
[An Empire Airship landed, revealed Gaius Van Baelsar followed by three distinguished: Nero Tol Scaeva, Livia Sas Junius, and Rhitahtyn Sas Arvina]


[Narration by Gaius Van Baelsar]
It has been fifteen years, but the bitter taste of defeat lingers still...
Fifteen years since the imperial fleet set course for Mor Dhona, led by Agrius, mightiest of all vessels.
Silvertear Lake lay ripe for the taking, and all of Eorzea would soon be ours...
...or so we believed.
But an innumerable host of dragons met us that day, at the heart of which flew the great Midgardsormr.
Though we succeeded in slaying that lord among wyrms, the dread serpent's defeat was bought at too high a price.
Our invincible flagship was lost, and all hope of victory with her.
So ended our glorious conquest.


[End Scene]
???: Eorzea... A blighted realm, riddled with false gods...
???: Twice now it has eluded the Empire's grasp.
???: For all the destruction it wrought, even Meteor, the Great Sin, failed to yield us control over it.
???: And for this failure, the realm has sunk deeper into depravity.
???: It is twisted beyond all reckoning─rotten nigh to the core.
???: Yet it must be saved.
???: Only Garlean rule can bring order to Eorzea. It falls to us to deliver the misguided masses from their ignorance.
All: We are of one mind, Lord van Baelsar.


[Somewhere in Castrum Occidens]
Midlander Engineer: Hey. Is the legatus really planning to take another tilt at Eorzea?
Highlander Engineer: Eh!? What hole have you been hiding in? We're in the midst of preparing for a new campaign, and a huge one at that!
Midlander Engineer: But...I thought the Emperor had given up the western lands for lost after Carteneau. What could the legatus possibly hope to gain by acting alone?
???: I sense you harbor certain doubts over the wisdom of the legatus's plan.
Midlander Engineer: M-My lord!
Nero Tol Scaeva: Please, call me Nero. Tell me, where were you born?
Highlander Engineer: Othard, milord!
Midlander Engineer: Ala Mhigo, my lord!
Nero Tol Scaeva: Ah, Codename Hummingway, I presume?
Midlander Engineer: I-I don't know what you─
Nero Tol Scaeva: Silence. Your denials will not change your fate.
Nero Tol Scaeva: I assure you─Frumentarium sees all.


[Nero killed the Midlander Engineer]
Midlander Engineer: Argh...
Nero Tol Scaeva: Clean up this mess. And do not miss any, or I shall be most displeased.
Highlander Engineer: A-At once, milord!
Nero Tol Scaeva: Garlond... Soon you will be made to know the true power of magitek.


[Adventurer arrived in Limsa Lominsa]
Arrivals Attendant: Ah, you must be the envoy from Gridania! Welcome to Limsa Lominsa, my lord. Admiral Bloefhiswyn awaits your arrival.


Storm Honor Guard: You are the Gridanian envoy? Welcome to Limsa Lominsa.
Storm Honor Guard: The Admiral has been looking forward to your arrival.
Storm Honor Guard: Please proceed to the Crow's Lift at your earliest convenience. It will take you to Bulwark Hall.
Storm Honor Guard: Once there, pray speak with Zanthael. He will be pleased to show you in to the Admiral's command room on the Bridge.


Zanthael: Greetings, sir, and welcome to our fair city. If you would permit me to examine the seal on the missive you carry...
Zanthael: Yes, everything seems to be in order. My apologies. We cannot afford to be complacent, you understand. Please, step this way.
???: Enter.
Merlwyb: I did not expect the Gridanian envoy to be an adventurer. It speaks highly of your character that the Elder Seedseer would choose an coutsider to represent her nation's interests.
Merlwyb: This way.
Merlwyb: I bid you welcome.
Merlwyb: I am Merlwyb Bloefhiswyn, Admiral of Limsa Lominsa, and commander of the Maelstrom.
Merlwyb: Now, what news from the Black Shroud?
Merlwyb: Hm. A memorial service to honor the fallen.
Merlwyb: Seven hells... Has it been five years?
Merlwyb: Five years since the Garlean Empire sought to wrest Eorzea from our grasp...
Merlwyb: It was in answer to the imperial threat that the city-states formed the Grand Companies, and forged the Eorzean Alliance anew. But Garlemald was not content to wager all on a simple contest of martial might. They had other plans─the Meteor project.
Merlwyb: Legatus Nael van Darnus─hells take him─intended to “cleanse” our realm by snatching the lesser moon Dalamud from the heavens and casting it down upon our heads. Desperate to prevent this lunatic scheme, we marched our forces to the Carteneau Flats and there met the VIIth Imperial Legion in battle.
Merlwyb: Never have I seen a fight like the Battle of Carteneau─and I have seen full many.
Merlwyb: But though we gave no quarter, spared not one onze of effort...we could not prevent what followed.
Merlwyb: From inside the shell of Dalamud came a winged nightmare─a dragon the size of a bloody city. 'Twas the elder primal Bahamut, bent on making an eighth hell of Eorzea.
Merlwyb: In the space of a breath, the legions of the Empire were set aflame, while our own armies fared little better. 'Twas as if the whole world was burning... Words cannot well describe the scene.
Merlwyb: And yet...by some miracle, a few among us were spared.
Merlwyb: Even as I steeled myself for death, a blinding white light enveloped me, robbing me of my senses.
Merlwyb: When I regained them, the dragon was gone, and the still-smoldering land was warped beyond all knowing.
Merlwyb: Were Archon Louisoix still with us, he would doubtless shed some light on these unfathomable happenings. Alas, he is not, and I fear we will want for his wisdom in the days to come.


Merlwyb: For while our nations struggle to recover from the devastation, the beastmen call forth their damned primals to torment us anew.
Merlwyb: Unless we put aside our differences and rebuild now, our foes will catch us unprepared.
Merlwyb: And I speak not only of the beastmen. Do not imagine that the Empire has forsaken its claim on Eorzea. The imperials crowd our borders, waiting to strike.
Merlwyb: Damn it all, we need champions to replace those we lost...
Merlwyb: But such thoughts are worse than worthless. Time is short, and none will save us, save ourselves. It is the duty of every soul who survived the Calamity to work together for the good of Eorzea...and this memorial service may be the very thing to unite us.
Merlwyb: Aye, Kan-E-Senna has the right of it. I accept her proposal.
Merlwyb: Your duty is done here, adventurer─I will see to it that the Elder Seedseer receives my reply.
Merlwyb: You travel next to Ul'dah, yes?
Merlwyb: Pray give my regards to General Raubahn. Oh, and tell him the wolf has been sniffing around the stables. A private jest─and one in poor taste─but I would have you tell it all the same.
Merlwyb: Fare you well, Coral. May the Navigator guide you on your journey.


L'nophlo: Greetings, sir. This is the counter for passengers traveling to Ul'dah.
L'nophlo: A pleasure to serve you again, sir. Are you ready to board the airship to Ul'dah?
Arrivals Attendant: Ah, you must be the envoy from Gridania! Welcome to Ul'dah, sir. The Flame General awaits your arrival.
Flame Honor Guard: Welcome to Ul'dah, sir. We have been expecting you.
Flame Honor Guard: Flame General Raubahn will receive you in the Fragrant Chamber. Please take the lift down to the Hustings Strip and speak with Bartholomew at the Royal Promenade.


Bartholomew: The Gridanian envoy, I presume? Would you be so good as to allow me to inspect the missive you bear, sir? My thanks.
Bartholomew: Ah yes, the seal of the Elder Seedseer. Please proceed.
Raubahn: Ah, a guest from Gridania. I thought I smelled leaf mold.
Raubahn: I won't hold it against you. If you're half the warrior Kan-E says, 'tis a wonder you don't reek of dead Ixal.
Raubahn: Welcome to the Sultanate of Ul'dah. I am Raubahn Aldynn, General of the Immortal Flames.
Raubahn: But you did not come all this way to trade formalities.
Raubahn: ...Carteneau. Aye, I remember bloody Carteneau.
Raubahn: Do you know what happened that day, adventurer? When we took the field against the Garleans?
Raubahn: So my counterparts have educated you.
Raubahn: Hm? Oh. Trust Merlwyb to make light of our wolf problem. Woman always did have a black sense of humor.
Raubahn: Wolves are bloodthirsty beasts upon which one cannot turn one's back. 'Tis only a matter of time before they bite.
Raubahn: So it was with the Garleans, fifty years ago.
Raubahn: No sooner had they learned how to use magitek than they began seizing territory from their neighbors.
Raubahn: Led by then Legatus Solus zos Galvus, they swiftly brought the other nations of Ilsabard to heel. And so the legatus became an emperor, and his republic an empire...
Raubahn: An empire which then set its sights upon Eorzea.
Eline Roaille: But the conquering emperor is now an old man of four score winters. His health is failing, and he has no clear successor. Like as not, this is why the Garleans have been quiet of late.
Raubahn: But the XIVth Imperial Legion is still entrenched within our borders.
Raubahn: And their commander, Legatus Gaius van Baelsar, has long harbored ambitions of conquest.
Raubahn: Were he to strike now, I fear we would fall like so many others before us. And not only Ul'dah, but Gridania and Limsa Lominsa as well.


Raubahn: For the Calamity brought the lot of us to our knees, and we've yet to get up. We barely have the strength to stand against the beast tribes, never mind the primals they mean to summon.
Raubahn: We are a realm divided, adventurer. An alliance in name only.
Raubahn: But the wolf cares not for the plight of its prey.
Raubahn: The Garleans stir, and the Admiral would not let it go unnoticed.
Raubahn: All other concerns pale in comparison to the Empire─even the beast tribes and their bloody primals.
Raubahn: We must stand united once more, that much is clear. And if we're to do so, we must remember the cause which last brought us together. Kan-E will have her memorial.
Raubahn: We will honor the memory of the fallen. We will remind the people what their brothers and sisters fought and died for.
Eline Roaille: Shall I inform the sultana and the Syndicate?
Raubahn: I will speak with Her Grace myself.
Eline Roaille: Very good, sir.
Raubahn: The Elder Seedseer will have my reply anon.
Raubahn: My thanks to you, adventurer.
Lv. 15        Call of the Sea [lore] [c]
Bartholomew: Ah, my lord envoy. I trust your stay in the sultanate has been pleasant. Now, if you do not mind my asking, do you perchance have plans to visit Limsa Lominsa in the near future? If so, I have information that may be of interest to you.
Bartholomew: I once accompanied the Flame General on an official visit to the seaside city-state, during which time I became acquainted with Baderon, the proprietor of the Drowning Wench. Well, the man sent word just now that he has a job for a capable adventurer.
Bartholomew: I can think of none with better credentials than you. Baderon would doubtless be pleased were you to offer him your services.


Baderon: Welcome to the Drowning Wench! Sit wherever ye like, mate. I'll be with ye in a─
Baderon: Hm? Aye, I'm Baderon, all right. Who's askin'?
Baderon: Ah, 'eard as I've got a job fer a capable 'venturer, ye say? Well, yer bloody right!
Baderon: Just so yer fairly warned, though, this ain't no job fer the faint of 'eart. Things're liable to get downright bleedin' 'airy. But if ye think yer still interested, let me know, an' I'll fill ye in on the details.


Lv. 15        It's Probably Pirates
Baderon: Ahoy there! I thank ye fer takin' the time to 'elp me out.
Baderon: Now, I'm sure yer busy, so I'll come straight to the point. Word 'as it some suspicious-lookin' buggers 'ave been sneakin' in an' out o' Sastasha Seagrot, an' I need a trustworthy sort to 'ead up north of Aleport an' find out who they are an' what they're up to.
Baderon: Don't sound like much, I know...
Baderon: But it weren't so long ago as the fishbacks' pet pirates paid us an unwelcome visit, an' folk are feelin' a bit nervous.
Reyner: If you would permit me, Master Baderon, I should be happy to elaborate.
Baderon: Well, well, if it ain't the chief Yellowjacket 'imself. To what do I owe this rare honor, Commodore Reyner? Come to make sure me patrons are behavin'─or just thirsty?
Reyner: Neither, in fact. I was informed that you had requested an adventurer to assist in my investigation, and I came to offer what information I could sift from recent reports.
Reyner: Over the course of the past moon, there have been several sightings of an unfamiliar vessel off the coast of Aleport, in the vicinity of the Isles of Umbra.
Reyner: This information came to my attention no more than a few weeks after a squad of my own soldiers had completed a routine patrol of the region, Sastasha Seagrot included.
Reyner: Their search revealed little, save that a family of coeurls had taken up residence in the caves. Nothing to concern us, in short.
Reyner: In light of recent developments, however, it would seem wise to search Sastasha again.
Reyner: But with the Sahagin testing our defenses daily, I am loath to assign the task to the limited forces at my disposal. Our line is stretched as it is.
Reyner: Thus I sought the services of a competent adventurer to conduct an investigation in our stead. Any aid you can offer in this matter would be greatly appreciated.
Reyner: Then it is settled.
Reyner: Sastasha is located in western La Noscea. For more detailed instructions on how to reach the place, I suggest you consult V'mellpa. She can be found at the ferry docks on the lower decks.
Baderon: You 'eard the man! Good luck to ye, lad!


V'mellpa: You're here about Commodore Reyner's investigation? Then you'll want to board a ferry bound for Aleport.
V'mellpa: Once you arrive in western La Noscea, head to the north and you'll come across Sastasha Seagrot soon enough. We have a scout stationed by the entrance to the cave with orders to brief you on the situation.
Rerenasu: This ferry is bound for Aleport. Are you riding with us?


Yellowjacket: Please tell me you're here on Yellowjacket duty, and not some daft sod out for a stroll. I can't take any more of this blasted waiting. You are? Thank the gods.
Yellowjacket: I assume you already know about the ship seen slipping around the Isles of Umbra?
Yellowjacket: We've been on the lookout for pirate activity ever since that vessel was sighted, thinking a crew of cutthroats might have a den nearby.
Yellowjacket: So when we received word that men of questionable quality had been seen passing in and out of Sastasha here, we weren't entirely surprised.
Yellowjacket: I've yet to see them for myself, but if this lot belongs to those fishback-fancying Serpent Reavers...
Yellowjacket: Well, you can imagine the panic it'll cause. The kidnappings are still fresh in people's minds.
Yellowjacket: Anyway, your task is to poke around in the caves, and find out exactly who we're dealing with. While you do that, I'll be keeping watch out here...praying you don't spot any blue face tattoos.
Yellowjacket: The fishbacks and their Serpent Reaver lackeys cannot be allowed to establish a permanent base in these lands.
Yellowjacket: You must uncover the truth behind who or what is lurking in these caves, adventurer. The peace of western La Noscea may depend on it!


[Inside Sastasha]
: You find a blood-stained scrap of parchment with a message scrawled upon it in faded ink.


“The Capten lykes his wyne Redd.”




[The group pursue the Pirate's Captain, and a creature walked towards him]
Denn the Orcatoothed: Pshhh... You shully our shpawning groundsss, shorewalker!


[A creature killed the captain and fight the group]
Denn the Orcatoothed: Hsss! Finlesss foolsss!
Denn the Orcatoothed: The Lord of the Whorl shhhall sssup upon your sssoulsss!


Baderon: Aye, such a task was on the books. “Was,” mind. I'm afraid that ship 'as already sailed, friend.
Dolorous Bear: Ah. Might you be the adventurer who accepted the job of investigating Sastasha?
Dolorous Bear: Hmph. It would seem that ship has not only sailed, but now returns to harbor, none the worse for its voyage. A pity. We dragged our boots too long on this one.
E'manafa: No matter. The wheel will turn and our chance will come.
Dolorous Bear: You are right, of course. But there shall be no rest till we have attained our goal, lofty though it may be!
Kikina: Not a wink of sleep, great leader!
Dolorous Bear: Our aim, lest you wonder, is to perform such feats of heroism as will earn us a place in the songs of every alehouse in Eorzea. We mean to write a legend which will inspire adventurers as yet unborn to follow our shining example.
Dolorous Bear: Do you have such a goal? Large or small, it matters not. Only have a star to reach for and you will reach higher.
Dolorous Bear: Purpose can sustain you through times of hardship. Keep your eye on the prize, and all obstacles will be overcome in time.
Dolorous Bear: You would not think to stride into battle unclad, would you? Well, goals are as arms and armor for the spirit! I wish you fortune in your endeavors, sir!


Baderon: Back then, are ye? With all yer limbs, an' a tale to tell, I'll wager.
Baderon: Fishbacks? An' there I was thinkin' ye'd only 'ave to crack a pirate skull or three. Seven hells... Ye turn yer back fer five bloody minutes, an' the scaly bastards've set up shop on yer bleedin' doorstep...
Baderon: Still, sounds like ye left 'em in pieces, so I don't s'pose they'll be carryin' out whatever mischief they was plannin'─unless they was plannin' on feedin' 'emselves to the fauna o' Sastasha, o' course. Anyroad, all's well that ends well!
Baderon: On behalf o' Limsa, I thank ye fer sheddin' some light on this mystery. Ye've lived up to yer reputation, an' I couldn't ask fer no more'n that.
Baderon: Now, I'll bet yer dyin' fer a rest, but just in case yer not, I was wonderin' if ye might be interested in takin' on another job? It just so 'appens that I've 'ad a request from our sister guild in Gridania, see.
Baderon: Seems the forest folk're in need of a 'venturer what can get things done.
Baderon: Fer them to ask fer 'elp like this, ye can bet the task won't be no skip through a sunny glade. But after the way ye dealt with our fishback infestation, I doubt it's anythin' ye can't 'andle.
Baderon: Give us a shout when yer ready, an' I'll lay it out fer ye.
Lv. 15 Call of the Forest 
Baderon: Ready to 'ear about that job, then? Like I said, the request comes from our sister guild in Gridania.
Baderon: ...An' that's all I know. But whatever it is ye get asked to do, I some'ow doubt it'd pose any trouble fer a 'venturer as survived the bedlam in Sastasha.
Baderon: If ye think ye might be interested, ye'll want to 'ave words with Mother Miounne, me counterpart in Gridania. Good luck, mate!


Mother Miounne: Take a seat wherever you like, friend. Our waitress will come to take your─
Mother Miounne: Oh, it's you, Coral! 'Tis so good to see you again!
...What's that? Here at Baderon's suggestion, you say?
Mother Miounne: The foul-mouthed rogue sends me word that an adventurer might be along for the job, and it turns out to be you! Well, this makes things a lot easier, doesn't it?
Mother Miounne: With regard to the task in question, there is a fair bit to tell. Let me know when you're ready to hear the details, and I shall brief you.




Lv. 16 Fire in the Gloom [Credits: Aurelia Wisenri] [lore] [c]
Mother Miounne: Ready for that briefing? Good! Now then, here's the long and short of it...
Lewin: Beg pardons for interrupting, Miounne, but our need grows ever more pressing. Have none stepped forward?
Mother Miounne: And good day to you too, Bowlord! Your need must be pressing indeed for you to honor us with a visit. The good news is: your journey hasn't been wasted. I'm pleased to report that we have a volunteer at last, and one who comes highly recommended, at that.
Lewin: Well, if it isn't our very own man for all seasons! You certainly have a knack for appearing when you're most needed, Coral. My thanks for answering the call.
Lewin: Now, time is of the essence, so I shall proceed directly to the heart of the matter. We wish for you to nip a potential threat to Gridania in the bud.
Mother Miounne: Beneath the Central Shroud, there lies an underground burial site called the Tam-Tara Deepcroft.
Mother Miounne: The place was once a Gelmorran settlement, but we Gridanians have long interred our dead there.
Lewin: Of late, however, shadowy figures have been seen skulking about the Deepcroft, and with ever increasing regularity.
Lewin: Based on the accounts of various witnesses, we suspect that these individuals belong to the Lambs of Dalamud, a doomsday cult which sprung up prior to the Calamity.
Lewin: These zealots have proven themselves dangerous in the past, and we leave them to their own devices at our peril.
Lewin: Ordinarily, I would have dispatched my best men to scour the Deepcroft with orders to flush the cultists out.
Lewin: Alas, the Calamity decimated our ranks, and the limited forces at my disposal are constantly required to keep the Ixal at bay.
Lewin: Since we thwarted their attack on the Guardian Tree, the birdmen have not allowed us a moment's respite. They have probed every ilm of our defenses in search of a weakness, compelling me to spread our forces far more thinly than I would like.
Lewin: The situation so being, we have no choice but to entrust the task of dealing with the Lambs of Dalamud to others. Can we rely on you to handle this matter, Coral?
Lewin: You have my gratitude.
Lewin: Once you've seen to your preparations, pray make your way to the Deepcroft, and identify yourself to the guard posted at the entrance. He will apprise you of the latest developments. That is all.
Mother Miounne: Be careful out there, you hear? May the Crystal guide you and keep you!




God's Quiver Bow: You're <player name> I take it? Thanks for helping us out, friend.
God's Quiver Bow: No doubt the Bowlord has already informed you, but your task is to enter the Deepcroft and purge it of the Lambs of Dalamud. 
God's Quiver Bow: In case you're unfamiliar with them, the cult emerged shortly before the Calamity put an end to the Sixth Astral Era. 
God's Quiver Bow: The cultists took the lesser moon, Dalamud, for their god, believing it would deliver them from the devastation. 
God's Quiver Bow: And so they were rather disappointed when Dalamud exploded into a thousand flaming pieces before it could complete its descent. 
God's Quiver Bow: Now, having seen their god turn to ash, one would think that the cultists might feel moved to question their faith. On the contrary, it served only to stoke the flames of their fanaticism. 
God's Quiver Bow: The Lambs of Dalamud are convinced that "heretics" - that is to say, everyone but them - interfered with the coming of their lord and savior, and that it's now their sacred duty to avenge him. 
God's Quiver Bow: Whatever it is they're doing in the Deepcroft, you can be sure that no good will come of it. For the sake of Gridania, and Eorzea at large, put an end to their madness.


[Within Tam-Tara Deepcroft, Lambs of Dalamud is performing a summoning ritual, the adventurers interrupted summoning rite, but it is too late]
Galvanth the Dominator: Who summons me from the void to reside within this crude vessel?


[Battle]


Galvanth the Dominator: You seem surprised. Did you not cross our gates in search of blood?
Galvanth the Dominator: Come hither, children of the dawn. The undying master will drink deep tonight!


Mother Miounne: Welcome back, Coral! I'm reliably informed that your foray into the Deepcroft was a success.
Mother Miounne: Nor did I expect anything less. You've made such a habit of succeeding that it's difficult not to take your talents for granted. Rest assured, however: Mother is impressed, even if she isn't surprised.
Mother Miounne: Bowlord Lewin asked me to pass on his thanks.
Mother Miounne: I must say, it's something of a relief to be able to call upon such a capable adventurer.
Mother Miounne: Sadly, death has become an ever more common occurrence within our fraternity of late. Times being what they are, the guild is constantly inundated with petitions, and we are hard-pressed to find enough hands to deal with them all.
Mother Miounne: While this means no shortage of work for able souls such as yourself, it also provides ample opportunity for the inexperienced to overreach themselves─with predictable consequences. Ah...as if to illustrate the point...
Liavinne: Avere's gone, and it's all your fault! If it hadn't taken you an age to heal him, he would still be alive!
Edda: <sniff> B-But I tried! He bolted out of range before I could finish the spell!
Edda: <sob> He shouldn't have been so hard-pressed in the first place... We should've done more to lighten his burden...
Paiyo Reiyo: Bah! To the hells with this pathetic excuse for a party! I'm leaving, and it'd be too soon if I never see your faces again! Good-bye, and good riddance!
Liavinne: I'm leaving as well. I doubt this comes as any surprise, but I never liked you. I only suffered you for your healing, but you couldn't even do that one thing right. Cruel though this may sound, you brought this upon yourself.
Liavinne: Oh, and by way of some parting advice...get rid of Avere's head! Bury it, cremate it, do whatever the hells you like with it─but for gods' sakes, stop carrying it around! It's...it's just... Just get rid of it, all right!?
Edda: W-Wait! Don't leave me alone! Please!
Edda: <sob> I'm so sorry, Avere... Please forgive me...
Mother Miounne: Scenes like this have become all too common. That makes a dozen times in half as many days...
Mother Miounne: Now you see why I'm grateful for adventurers of your experience. I can send men like you on a mission without worrying that you might not return─well, not so much, at any rate.
Mother Miounne: Speaking of missions, I would entrust you with another.
Mother Miounne: About a bell ago, I received a message from my counterpart in Ul'dah. She seeks the services of a reliable adventurer, and you are nothing if not reliable.
Mother Miounne: If you think you might be interested in this task, say the word, and I will be glad to share the details with you.


Lv. 16        Call of the Desert [c]
Mother Miounne: So, you're not averse to taking a little trip? Wonderful!
Mother Miounne: As I mentioned earlier, the request comes to us from the Adventurers' Guild in Ul'dah. Once you arrive, seek out Momodi, the proprietress of the Quicksand. Think of her as the sultanate's version of myself.
Mother Miounne: Chances are she'll send you into the midst of danger, but I have every confidence that you will pull through unscathed. Now, off you go, Coral, and good luck!
Momodi: Welcome to the Quicksand, friend. I'm a tad busy right now, if you wouldn't mind showin' yourself to─
Momodi: Judgin' by your determined expression, I take it you ain't here for ale. Are you called Coral Ferrinas, by any chance?
Momodi: Miounne sent word that you'd be reportin' for duty. She also made a point of callin' you the adventurer of the moment. That ain't no small praise, comin' from her.
Momodi: But you didn't come all the way here to listen to my prattle. Doubtless you're eager to get started, so let's talk business, shall we?
Lv. 17 Into a Copper Hell [lore] [c]
Momodi: The petitioner ought to be arrivin' any moment now...
Papashan: Gods almighty! Another second under that sun, and I would have been set afire! A tankard of ale, if you would be so kind!
Momodi: Excellent timin', Papashan. It just so happens the adventurer who'll be handlin' your petition is here.
Papashan: So this strapping young lad is the much-lauded adventurer, is he? Marvelous, marvelous!
Papashan: A pleasure to make your acquaintance, good sir. I am Papashan, formerly of the Sultansworn. I thank you for agreeing to lend us your aid.
Momodi: Mayhap you'd like to apprise Coral of his mission?
Papashan: Yes, of course. The petition in question was submitted by an acquaintance of mine at Amajina & Sons Mineral Concern. It relates to an unfortunate development at Copperbe


ll Mines.
Papashan: To be plain, giants have seized control of the place.
Papashan: These giants are of the clan known as the hecatoncheires─fearsome creatures who were sealed within the deepest depths of the mines during the bygone Thorne Dynasty.
Papashan: Alas, it seems they have managed to break through the layer of rock which served to imprison them, and now prowl the tunnels where the miners ply their trade. The creatures are justifiably angry about their treatment at the hands of our ancestors, and their presence has forced the suspension of all mining activities on the site.
Momodi: It's no wonder they're angry. Didn't the Thorne Dynasty come to an end over three hundred years ago?
Papashan: You know your history well, milady.
Papashan: The people of that age used the hecatoncheires to work their mines. By way of enchanted helms, they were able to bind the ferocious creatures to their will. But as is oft the way in such tales, these enchantments eventually failed, and the slaves rose up against their masters.
Papashan: In a desperate bid to contain the unbridled fury of the hecatoncheires, our ancestors induced the collapse of the mines' lowermost levels. So it was that the Great Giant Revolt was ended─buried beneath a hundred thousand tonzes of rock.
Momodi: Well, now...that's got me thinkin'... I seem to recall there bein' an article about Copperbell in the Mythril Eye a fortnight or so ago.
Momodi: It said the mines were bein' reopened so as to meet the risin' demand for buildin' materials. Like as not, our boys dug a bit too deep and freed the giants.
Momodi: Gods...to think the poor creatures are still alive an' kickin' after three centuries... That's a long time to nurse a grudge. They must be seethin'...
Papashan: Indeed. And that makes them a danger to us all. There will be no mining at Copperbell so long as they remain. For the sake of both peace and prosperity, they must be subdued. This is the task which we would have you undertake.
Papashan: I'll not deny that the mission will be rife with danger, but our need is great. And so I beg you: put an end to this sorry business.
Papashan: Gods bless you! I feared you might have reservations, but I assure you it is for the best.
Momodi: Hmm... In case you don't know, Copperbell Mines are in western Thanalan. Do take care, you hear?
Papashan: Ah, and one last thing before you depart... An employee of Amajina & Sons is presently at the Quicksand. The fellow's name is Painted Mesa, and he knows Copperbell Mines well. It may behoove you to seek his counsel.


Painted Mesa: Lookin' for Painted Mesa? You found him.
Painted Mesa: So you're the adventurer who's volunteered to deal with the mess down in Copperbell, are you?
Painted Mesa: You've got guts, mate. I just hope you've got skills to go with 'em, 'cause things ain't pretty down there. The hecatoncheires've left the place in a right state, and nary a week after minin' resumed.
Painted Mesa: I don't know if you know this, but Copperbell was old when the Ul Dynasty was still young, and it was abandoned centuries ago. If it hadn't been for the shortage of materials needed for the rebuildin' effort, the Concern would never have thought to reopen it.
Painted Mesa: We knew full well about the giants beforehand, but the project went ahead anyway. I mean, nothin' could possibly survive bein' buried under a mountain's worth of rock for three centuries, right? Wrong!
Painted Mesa: Our miners dug up more than they bargained for. One swing of the pickaxe too many, and they found 'emselves in the company of giants. Unless we can subdue 'em, the nation's glorious recovery'll grind to a halt for want of aught to build with.
Painted Mesa: The Stone Torches're keepin' watch over the entrance in case the giants fancy some sunlight and fresh air. One of 'em will be able to show you the way in. The hope of the nation's restin' on you, friend. Best of luck!


Stone Torch: There's been an incident inside Copperbell Mines. We are here to ensure that its effects are contained, but for your own safety, I suggest you stay well away from here.
Stone Torch: What? You're the adventurer who's volunteered to quell the hecatoncheires?
Stone Torch: I didn't think that Papashan would be able to find someone so quickly...if at all.
Stone Torch: The giants are content to wreak havoc inside the mines for now, but it's only a matter of time before they think to come outside. The sooner you see to them, the better. Make ready as best you can, and enter at will.


[Within the Copperbell Mines]
???: SLAVES NO MORE! FREE! FREEEEEE!
Gyges the Great: MASTERS MUST PAY! MASTERS MUST DIE!
Gyges the Great: NEVER AGAIN! NEVER!




Painted Mesa: Ah, the conqueror of Copperbell returns!
Painted Mesa: Thanks to you, our minin' operations can resume, and Ul'dah will have the materials she needs to rebuild. The entire nation's in your debt, friend.
Painted Mesa: I'll share the good tidin's with Papashan the next time I see him. As for you, you'll want to report to Momodi. It'll do the woman well to see you alive and in one piece.


[Outside of the Adventurers’ Guild, Yda can be seen barely hiding behind a statue]
???: Noooooo!
Obnoxious Merchant: Shut your mouth, you thieving little swine! You stole from me─don't even think to deny it!
Desperate Damsel: P-Please, sir, I didn't steal nothin'!
Desperate Damsel: I b-bought this─paid for it with me own coin!
Obnoxious Merchant: What rot! You refugees are all the same─couldn't afford maggoty mole meat, much less a choice cut of dodo!
Obnoxious Merchant: I'm going to say it one more time: give back what you stole, or I'll make you wish you'd never set foot in this town!
Obnoxious Merchant: By rights, I should turn you over to the Brass Blades, you know─help keep the streets safe for law-abiding citizens. But I'm a reasonable man. If you agree to serve me in...whatever capacity I require, the authorities needn't hear of your crime.
Desperate Damsel: B-But I ain't done nothin' wrong! Twelve as me witness!
Desperate Damsel: P-Please, adventurer! Help me, I beg o' ye!
Desperate Damsel: I swear on me mother's grave, I didn't steal nothin'! I bought this with the coin I'd saved... <sob> I only wanted to treat me children to a decent meal...
Obnoxious Merchant: And who the hells are you when you're at home!? This dog's master?
Obnoxious Merchant: I've had enough of this mummer's farce. You lot, teach them a lesson!


[Battle]
Filthy Bodyguard: <belch> I'll take care o' this. The rest o' ye can watch.
Filthy Bodyguard: Hmph! Not bad...for an adventurer!
Filthy Bodyguard: Ugh... I should've stopped at the seventh ale...
Filthy Bodyguard: Stop bloody gawpin' at me and give me a hand, will ye!?
Filthy Bodyguard: Bugger, bugger, BUGGER!




[After Battle]
Boastful Bodyguard: I ain't gettin' paid enough for this!
Obnoxious Merchant: H-Hey! Where the hells do you think you're going!?
Desperate Damsel: Thank ye, kind adventurer! Thank ye thrice over!


[Flashback]
Young City-dweller: I'd swear there were more refugees than when I last looked...
Concerned Citizen: And you wouldn't be mistaken.
Young City-dweller: But it's been five years since the Calamity! Why are they only coming here now?
Concerned Citizen: It's simple, really─while a number of hamlets survived the immediate aftermath of the Calamity, many were no longer able to support their communities.
Concerned Citizen: The residents found their lands had either been rendered barren, or cut off from trade routes─and problems like those aren't easily solved. Though they tried to make the best of it, it was only a matter of time before they were forced to abandon their homes and seek a new life in the city.
Young City-dweller: I see...
Young City-dweller: But the Calamity affected the whole realm, didn't it? Is the same thing happening in the other cities?
Concerned Citizen: If the talk is true, yes.
Concerned Citizen: Though perhaps our situation is more pronounced. Ul'dah has a reputation for being prosperous, so it's natural that the refugees would try their luck here first.
Young City-dweller: My heart goes out to them, it truly does...but I would be lying if I said that I wasn't apprehensive. I hope their presence doesn't foment lawlessness in the city.
Concerned Citizen: Well, if things do take a turn for the worse, we always have the Immortal Flames. I daresay the Brass Blades would welcome their help.
Young City-dweller: The heroes who fought the Garlean Empire, patrolling the streets for riffraff?
Concerned Citizen: It may well come to that.
Concerned Citizen: Impoverished and desperate as they are, you may be sure that some of the refugees will turn to crime.
Concerned Citizen: You know what this place is like. If you've no coin, you've no hope.
Young City-dweller: <sigh> What will become of our city?
Concerned Citizen: Not all refugees are bad, mind you. Some are able to find employment and lead honest lives.


[The Desperate Damsel is spotted in front of a salesman purchasing meat]
Sure-voiced Salesman: Dodo tenderloins! Get yer dodo tenderloins! Guaranteed cheapest in Thanalan!
Sure-voiced Salesman: Thank ye for yer custom, madam! Please come again!
Young City-dweller: Looking around, you'd think that Ul'dah was well on its way to recovery.
Young City-dweller: But peer through the veil of prosperity and you'll see no end to the misery and suffering.


[End Flashback]
Desperate Damsel: Er...sir? Are ye all right?
Obnoxious Merchant: Wh-What now!? You mean to threaten a defenseless citizen!?
Obnoxious Merchant: ...What? Saw her buy that meat, you say? Th-That's absurd!
???: Aye, as did I! Leave the poor woman alone, you damnable vulture!
Obnoxious Merchant: Wh-Who said that!?
Obnoxious Merchant: Grrr! I will overlook this...but just this once!
Desperate Damsel: Gods bless ye, adventurer! If ye hadn't come along when ye did, who knows what that monster might've done! It don't bear thinkin' about…
???: Case closed!
Yda: Hello again!
Papalymo: We have been keeping a close eye on you ever since you left Gridania.
Papalymo: You discharged your duty as envoy impeccably, and never once faltered in the face of myriad dangers.
Yda: But more importantly, you were always ready to help those in need, even if you didn't stand to earn a gil by doing so!
Papalymo: You are possessed of all the qualities we seek in an adventurer, of this we are convinced.
Yda: Even if you were kind of dragged into that business with the dodo meat.
Papalymo: Yes, thank you, Yda. Ahem. And then there is the matter of your gift. I daresay you are curious as to the nature of the vision you bore witness to moments ago? Well, we can help you to understand it.
Yda: You're not the only one with that power, you know. We have a friend who has it too, and we'd love for you to meet her.
Papalymo: And meeting her is only the beginning, for we would also have you lend your strength to our cause. In return, we should be glad to assist your adventuring endeavors in whatever way we are able.
Papalymo: Should you decide to take us up on our offer─and I sincerely hope you will─pray speak with Momodi. The proprietress of the Quicksand is a good friend of ours. She will tell you where to find us.
Yda: Waaait a minute─we haven't even told you the name of our order! We're the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, defenders of justice! Oh, but don't tell anyone. Except for Momodi. She knows already.


[Momodi was speaking with someone]
Momodi: Hmph. Scenes like that are becomin' ever more common, I'm afraid. Don't worry, though─if you work hard, you'll probably be all right.
Momodi: Sayin' that, if you ever find yourself in a spot of bother, come and see me. Just don't go pesterin' me every time you graze your knee, eh?
Momodi: ...'Course, I do enjoy hearin' tell of a gentleman's woes with the womenfolk from time to time...
Momodi: Ah, Coral! Sorry to keep you waitin'─I was just providin' guidance to a fresh-off-the-carriage adventurer.
Momodi: But gods, it's good to see you safe and well! To look at you, no one would ever guess you'd been hard at it with giants in the dark!
Momodi: You're every ilm the adventurer Miounne said you'd be, Coral. The stationmaster will be overjoyed when he hears the news!
Momodi: Oh, before I forget, there's a lass here who wants a word with you. Didn't actually know your name, but hearin' her description, I knew who she meant right away.
Edda: Th-Thank you for sparing the time. I realize you don't know me, but I've been longing to speak with you for a while now.
Edda: My name is Edda. I'm an adventurer like you, though I'm not very good at being one, if truth be told. Anyway, I was adventuring with my friends in Gridania when...when... I-I'm sorry. We were in Gridania...when the leader of our party was killed.
Edda: His name was Avere, and he and I were to be wed in the spring. You may not remember him, but to say that he remembered you would be an understatement. He would sing your praises from dawn to dusk. He saw you for what you are, you see─an adventurer's adventurer─and swore that he would be like you one day.
Edda: I believe that he would have succeeded...had a fiend not robbed him of the chance. Since that day, I have thought long and hard about giving up adventuring.
Edda: But when I think of the man you are─of all that you've achieved─I find that I am inspired, just as Avere once was.
Edda: And so I've decided to start again as an adventurer. I will go back to the village of my birth and begin my training anew.
Edda: But I wanted to meet you first...to ask you your name.
Edda: Coral Ferrinas... I shan't forget.
Edda: Thank you, Coral Ferrinas. I pray that we will meet again. Fare you well!
Momodi: Adventurin' can be a cruel bleedin' business... Time was, I didn't know why anyone would bother. When they first asked me to take charge of the guild here, I didn't want aught to do with you lot─thought it'd be a right pain in the arse lookin' after you all.
Momodi: But against my better judgment, I decided to accept the post...and I'm full glad I did. I feel privileged to be a part of your lives.
Momodi: And that goes double for yours, Coral!
Momodi: ...Eh? What did you say? You want to know about the Scions of the Seventh Dawn?
Momodi: They're beginnin' to move in earnest, then...
Momodi: Listen, Coral─the Scions ain't no ordinary folk, and the work they do ain't no ordinary work. I know full well how capable you are, but even you would think twice about attemptin' some of the stuff they do. Knowin' that, if you're still certain you want to get involved, I'll tell you what I can.


Lv. 17        The Scions of the Seventh Dawn [lore] [c]
Momodi: So you want to know more, then, do you? Well, ain't that a surprise... I swear, if I painted “CERTAIN DEATH” on one door and “LIMITLESS WEALTH” on another, nine out of ten adventurers would go through the first, and the other bloke wouldn't be able to choose, on account of bein' Ul'dahn. Anyway, don't say I didn't warn you.
Momodi: First of all, if you're wonderin' whether you can trust these “Scions of the Seventh Dawn,” you can. They're good people who've made it their mission to solve some of Eorzea's most pressin' problems. 'Course, that ain't no small task, and so they're always lookin' for dependable individuals to join 'em─individuals like you, Coral.
Momodi: Now, I've been given leave to tell you where to find the Scions, but you must promise to keep this information to yourself. As you can probably imagine, it's somethin' Eorzea's enemies would very much like to know.
Momodi: The Scions are headquartered in Vesper Bay, out in western Thanalan. The place you're lookin' for is called the Wakin' Sands. Give your name to whoever's at the entrance, and you'll be let in.
Momodi: You're a man in demand, Coral, and the days ahead promise to be busy, but I hope you won't forget about them as helped make you into the adventurer you are. Drop in and tell 'em how you're farin' from time to time, you hear? Right, well, I've said my piece. Off you go.




Tataru: Deep in the desert of my heart,♪
A lonely flower blooms...♪
Tataru: Yearning for the heavens above♪
To quench my thirst for you.♪
Tataru: Trololololo～lololo～♪
Tataru: Uwaaah!
Tataru: <cough>
Tataru: I would thank you not to sneak up on me like that!
Tataru: Now, please be advised that this is private property. Unless you have pertinent business here, I must ask you to─
Tataru: Here at the behest of Yda and Papalymo!?
Tataru: My sincerest apologies! May I please have your name?
Tataru: Coral Ferrinas...Coral Ferrinas... Ah, here you are.
Tataru: Ahem! I bid you welcome to the Waking Sands, headquarters of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn!
Tataru: My name is Tataru, and I look forward to assisting you during your time with us.
Tataru: The Antecedent is within the solar. I shall let her know to expect you.


[NPC Interraction]
Arenvald: I had a dream unlike any other. I was myself, but then I became something...more. When I spoke of it to others, they directed me here. Did you have one too?
A'aba Tia: The Antecedent made me an offer I couldn't refuse. Said that if I joined, I'd  get to fight against the primals and the imperials both to my heart's content.
A'aba Tia: Aye, I know I could get the same by enlistin' in one of 'em Grand Companies. But I've never been partial to salutin', if ye know what I mean. 
Aulie: That receptionist is something else. Did you perchance notice how small she's written the names in her roll? I couldn't make out a single one, no matter how hard I tried!
Aulie: ...Sorry, just trying to make idle conversation. This whole affair has me all worked up. I thought for sure that it was some sort of scam─that they were rounding up hapless adventurers for some nefarious ends.
Aulie: But now that I've seen the facilities for myself, I must confess it looks legitimate...


Scion of the Seventh Dawn: I take it you are Coral Ferrinas. Tataru sent word that you had arrived.
Scion of the Seventh Dawn: Lady Minfilia has eagerly awaited your coming. This way, if you please.


???: So you are the adventurer of whom I've heard so much.
Minfilia: Well met, friend. My name is Minfilia, and I lead the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Minfilia: I have awaited your coming.
Minfilia: Please, be at ease. You are among friends here.
Minfilia: No doubt you're ripe to burst with questions, but have patience─all will be revealed in time.
Minfilia: First, let me begin by telling you who we are and what we do.
Minfilia: We are the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, an order that transcends political boundaries. Our single objective is the preservation of the future of Eorzea.
Minfilia: Among our gravest concerns are the god-like beings known as the primals.
Minfilia: Their existence is a bane upon Eorzea─nay, the world at large, and we have striven to find a lasting solution to the threat they pose.
Minfilia: Our order is home to a number of individuals who, like you, possess a rare and special talent.
Minfilia: This talent takes various forms, but one holds particular interest for us.
Minfilia: Tell me, have you ever experienced a sudden, inexplicable loss of consciousness?
Minfilia: Have you ever had the sensation of being pulled away from reality? Felt as though you were hovering in space, a mind without a body?
Minfilia: All these things are the manifestations of your talent. Yours is the power to transcend the boundaries of the soul─a power known as the Echo.
Minfilia: The Echo allows you to pass through the walls of a man's soul, and hear the resonations of his past.
Minfilia: You will be there in his memories, and see things as he saw them. You may even interact with that which you see, though you cannot change the outcome of events.
Minfilia: For another blessing, the Echo will enable you to know a man's mind even if you cannot comprehend his words.
Minfilia: In short, the Echo is a truly extraordinary power. And this power is strong within you.
Minfilia: It is only a shame that we cannot use it whensoever we choose.
Minfilia: That's right. I too possess the Echo.
Minfilia: With that established, let us return to the subject of the primals.
Minfilia: So long as they exist, the realm cannot take so much as a single step towards true peace.
Minfilia: Measures must be taken─measures which transcend boundaries, be they of faction, race, language, or creed. And to do so, the Scions require the aid of those with our talent.
Minfilia: Make no mistake─the Echo will be instrumental in dealing with the primal threat. Without it, we cannot hope to save the realm.
Minfilia: I know not what it is you desire for yourself, nor what it was that first brought you to Eorzea.
Minfilia: But I firmly believe that the power we possess was given to us for a purpose.
Minfilia: Why else would the gods entrust man with a gift so extraordinary, if not to have him use it?
Minfilia: And so I implore you: lend us your power.
Minfilia: Naturally, your aid will not go unrewarded. We are fortunate to have a number of influential allies, and at a word from me, they will gladly afford you certain privileges that might otherwise be denied you.
Minfilia: The right to employ retainers, for example. Are you familiar with them? They are individuals who may be relied upon to manage your assets and belongings on your behalf.
Tataru: The papers you requested, my lady.
Minfilia: Thank you, Tataru.
Tataru: The pleasure is mine, my lady!
Minfilia: By way of a welcoming gift, I have taken the liberty of adding your name to the retainers' registry. As of now, you are entitled to employ the services of a retainer.
Minfilia: You will need to consult a retainer vocate regarding the particulars of this arrangement, but believe me when I say that retainers will prove invaluable to you in your adventuring endeavors.
Minfilia: Let this gesture serve as evidence of our commitment to do all in our power to facilitate your personal objectives.
Minfilia: In return, we ask that you aid us to the fullest extent of your talents.
Minfilia: A mutually beneficial relationship, I am sure you will agree, and one which serves the greater good besides.
Minfilia: Well, that was a veritable lecture, was it not? Forgive me, but it is important that all concerned are aware of what is expected of them. Now you know our purpose, and what we can offer you, I invite you to consider joining us. When you have come to a decision, you may tell me without fear of censure.
Minfilia: In good faith, I shall entrust you with our order's password, which our members use to reach one another when afield.
Minfilia: It is “wild rose.” Pray keep it safe.
Lv. 17        A Wild Rose by Any Other Name [lore] [c]
Minfilia: We Scions have but one objective: to safeguard the future of Eorzea. Among our gravest concerns are the god-like beings known as the primals. Long have we striven to find a lasting solution to the threat they pose.
Minfilia: I know not what it is you desire for yourself, nor what it was that first brought you to Eorzea, but I firmly believe that the power we possess was given to us for a purpose. Pray consider this when you give me your answer, Coral.


[Yours is no small endeavor...]
Minfilia: Small? No. Worthy? Undeniably. We labor for the good of all the realm.


[The dangers are great…]
Minfilia: They are. Yet the risks we take are justified, given that which is at stake.


[I will go whither the wild rose blooms…]
Minfilia: I take it you will help us.
Minfilia: Wonderful! I knew you wouldn't let us down!
Minfilia: But come, I would introduce you to your friends in the order.
Minfilia: Tell me, does the name Sharlayan ring any bells?
Minfilia: It used to be one of Eorzea's six city-states, and was situated in the northwest of Aldenard.
Minfilia: The Sharlayans were the keepers of wisdom both old and new. Their mastery over magick and aether was unsurpassed, and even the Garleans knew to fear them.
Minfilia: Among their number, there were a noble few who devoted their lives to safeguarding the future of Eorzea.
Minfilia: When the realm began its descent into chaos, and their countrymen fled for the motherland, they alone chose to remain here. These noble men and women were called the Archons.
Minfilia: Those same brave souls stand before you now.
Minfilia: The masked woman is Yda, and beside her is Papalymo. The two are charged with surveying the Twelveswood.
Yda: Hello there!
Papalymo: Well come!
Papalymo: I had every confidence that you would agree to help us.
Yda: Me too!
Yda: Okay, my turn to introduce someone! That there is Thancred!
Papalymo: He is our man here in Ul'dah, jewel of the desert.
Thancred: Welcome to the team!
Thancred: If I may, the lovely maiden beside me is named Y'shtola. Limsa Lominsa has the pleasure of being under her care.
Y'shtola: Greetings.
Y'shtola: Last but not least is Urianger, who presides over all affairs within these halls. Pray seek him out whenever you have questions.
Urianger: Dawn may banish even the darkest night...
Urianger: ...The words of a dear friend. I am glad of our meeting.
Y'shtola: At the Battle of Carteneau, our leader was taken from us. But we did not stray from our purpose.
Y'shtola: We sought out Minfilia and others with her talent, and together established the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Minfilia: Along with the Archons, those blessed with the Echo play a pivotal role in our endeavor to forge a brighter tomorrow for the realm.
Minfilia: Oh, I should also introduce you to Tataru, our clerk. She ensures that everything runs smoothly.
Tataru: Pleased to make your acquaintance!
Minfilia: In time, I hope you will come to think of us as family.
Minfilia: But without further ado...


Minfilia: I would assign you your first task.
Minfilia: Urianger. Have the documents arrived from the Students of Baldesion?
Urianger: Aye, my lady, they arrived but recently.
Minfilia: We have received a request for aid from the Immortal Flames.
Minfilia: Thancred, would you do the honors?
Thancred: It would be my pleasure.
Thancred: Some days ago, a crystal caravan registered to Amajina & Sons Mineral Concern was waylaid and divested of its cargo.
Thancred: But there is more. Within a bell of the robbery, several people were reported missing from the shantytown outside the city.
Minfilia: At a glance, one would assume the involvement of bandits, kidnappers, and coincidence.
Minfilia: Such crimes are hardly uncommon, and the Immortal Flames deal with their like almost every day.
Minfilia: However, this time we have reason to believe that a primal is involved.
Thancred: Aye, the evidence left behind implicates the Amalj'aa, who are known worshipers of Ifrit.
Thancred: If we then consider the objects that were taken, there is no room left for doubt─the crimes were committed in the name of a primal.
Minfilia: That you may better understand the nature of our struggle with the primals, I would have you play the leading role in this investigation.
Minfilia: You have my thanks.
Minfilia: If there is aught you wish to know, I recommend you speak with Thancred. He is well versed in the affairs of Ul'dah.
Thancred: Ever at your service, dear fellow!


Minfilia: Through this first mission, you will come to understand the nature of our struggle with the primals.
Minfilia: The realm may appear well on its way to recovery, but reality paints a far bleaker picture.
Minfilia: The truth is out there, Coral, and I would have you discover it for yourself.


Thancred: Ready to begin, are we? That's the spirit!
Thancred: So then, your mission is to investigate a crystal robbery and a spate of abductions.
Thancred: ...Crimes which we believe to be connected. Assuming we are correct, it is like that any discoveries we make in relation to one will further our understanding of the other.
Thancred: Now, since the attack on their caravan, our friends at Amajina & Sons Mineral Concern have doubled security over all their shipments.
Thancred: In light of this, it is my judgment that the abductions should be our priority.
Thancred: According to our preliminary findings, the majority of the missing were last seen in the vicinity of Camp Drybone, so that would seem a fine place to begin.
Thancred: A fellow by the name of Isembard serves as the camp's de facto leader. Pay him a visit, and see that he gives us his full cooperation.


[NPC Interaction]
Y'shtola: Our organization, the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, was formed through the union of two separate entities. The first was comprised of Sharlayan natives such as myself, and was called the Circle of Knowing.
Y'shtola: The second, made up of individuals that share your rare gift, was known as the Path of the Twelve.
Y'shtola: The terrible events that ushered in the Seventh Umbral Era taught us that only together may we stand against the evil that seeks to consume us.
Brendt: Don't mind me, lad, I'm just here to deliver a shipment. Now, where shall I tell 'em to put it...
Una Tayuun: Why don't any o' these blokes know who I am!? I swear I was one o' 'em Scions o' the Seventh Dawn!
Una Tayuun: Only we didn't have such a fancy name back then, an' the headquarters was in a far more convenient location.
Una Tayuun: At least, I think it was... Or is me mind playin' tricks on me? Gods, what's wrong with me? Why can't I remember it more clearly?
Aulie: The robberies and disappearances? The Amalj'aa are the most likely culprit, wouldn't you agree?
Aulie: Then again, this is Thanalan─one cannot discount the possibility that moneyed interests are involved.
Arenvald: They say that those of us who have seen the dream are chosen, that we have within us the seed of greatness. That we could be heroes.
Arenvald: Even me, an Ala Mhigan half-breed, cast out when his mother could no longer stand the sight of him. A half-breed who once took to banditry just to eat. Aye, I'm sure I'm just brimming with heroic potential...
A'aba Tia: Heh, so this boy has Garlean blood in him! Can't say I'm surprised. Everyone knows what happens when a city is sacked, even if the bards choose to omit that part.
A'aba Tia: But Arenvald shouldn't be pitied. Boys like him have a clean slate, an opportunity to write their own story, free of the ties that bind the common man.
Urianger: Seven waning moons see seven suns rise, Divine order roils, fallen corpses writhe.
Urianger: Thus the Divine Chronicles seek to warn us once more. The meaning of these words now shine clear: they evoke the dire circumstance of this imperiled age. 
Urianger: The realm doth shudder and twist, and the dawn lieth cowering 'neath the stifling blanket of night. And we abide. We await the coming of the unborn era's seed; the light which shall pierce the glowering darkness.
Yda: This place is called the Waking Sands, and it's our headquarters.
Yda: It used to be somewhere else, you know, but then a bunch of things happened, and we ended up here instead!
Papalymo: While there are others who possess the Echo, none are near as strong as you with the power. Hence our extremely high expectations of you!


Isembard: Aye, I'm Isembard. Here to search for the missing folk, I take it?
Isembard: Minfilia sent word that an adventurer fitting your description would be along.
Isembard: She also warned us to be wary of the Amalj'aa. It seems we know who the culprits are, at the very least.
Isembard: Now, I bear no official title at this camp, but the people here have come to look to me for leadership. You have my word that I'll do all I can to help see the victims safely returned.
Lv. 17        Unsolved Mystery


Isembard: It is good to see you returned. Were you able to secure the remains of our fallen?
Isembard: With the bodies given back proper to the earth, the souls will find their way across to the other side. You have done a noble deed this day. I thank you.
Isembard: Now, then, what of the Amalj'aa? Did you see any? Surely such massive monstrosities as they cannot conceal their presence, much less take their quarry unawares.
Isembard: Ah, so there were Amalj'aa remaining, after all... I feared as much. Their part in the lowborn disappearing is all but confirmed. But I sense there is more to this than meets the eye.
Isembard: The occasional Amalj'aa raiding party would not account for people going missing in these kinds of numbers. The total is too great, and the questions too many. It would not surprise me in the least to learn of another hand in this.
Isembard: But whose? Countless travelers pass through Drybone every day. And even if it were one among them, how would we best discover who may be implicit in these vanishings?


Lv. 18        What Poor People Think [c]
Isembard: What say we turn an eye to the commonfolk themselves? It may be among them that we find the reasons for these vanishings, Twelve forbid it be so.
Isembard: There is a merchant by the name of Ungust who was born here in Drybone and grew up in the Golden Bazaar. A...rough character, but he knows the people here better than anyone else.
Isembard: I'd wager he's at the inn, quaffing away the day's earnings. Here, I'll write a note for you to show him, else he's not like to speak to you.


Ungust: <belch> Well, gods be damned! You're that bloody adventurer who threatened me back in Ul'dah! What in the seven hells do you want with me now!?
Ungust: “Dear friend... <belch> Missing people... Please help... <hiccup> Yours, Isembard.”
Ungust: Folk around here are as wary as they come. They'll turn tail and run if you so much as pass wind nearby. Played them all for fools and coaxed some hard labor out of them, I did.
Ungust: If anything, they're even more timid than before, what with all the disappearances. You can go talk to 'em yourself if you don't believe me.


Hungry Beggar: P-Please, sir, just leave me be...
Devious Derelict: I've nothing to say but this: Thal take who─or whatever's been feeding off us low folk.
Petrified Pauper: Wh-What do you want from me!? I d-don't know anything, I swear! Please don't kill me!


Ungust: Just as I told you, wasn't it? The whole lot of them are terrified. <hiccup>
Ungust: There's been talk of folk getting abducted, but if you ask me, they simply up and moved on to a better place. This place isn't exactly Costa del Sol, if you know what I'm saying.


Isembard: Welcome back, Coral. Have you learned aught of import?
Isembard: I see... I suppose I should have expected as much from Ungust. Well, another thought occurred to me in your absence. The commonfolk are nothing if not fervent in their religious beliefs. Perhaps if they speak freely to their gods, then the clergy may know something of use.


Lv. 18        A Proper Burial
Isembard: If we would know what the commonfolk speak of to their gods, we've no better place to ask than at the Church of Saint Adama Landama. It is a small and humble church, found to the northwest of here.
Isembard: And so long as you are headed there...might I ask you to deliver this embalmed corpse? A morbid request, I grant you, but it must be borne to burial, and I trust none more than you to see it done.
Isembard: Seek out a man named Marques─he tends the graves of the lichyard. He will tell you where the body is to be interred.


Marques: I am Marques, yes. A body? Of course...
There...there have been...so many bodies of late...
Marques: I... I apologize, sir. If you seek a place of burial, then there is an empty grave atop the ridge. Take the path and lay him to rest there.


Marques: May they all walk in Thal's realm...
...What? Missing people? I...I'm afraid I cannot help you.
Marques: But maybe Sister Ourcen can. She has been kind to me. Everyone...everyone has been so kind.
Marques: I don't know why, though. I...
Pardon me. You will find Sister Ourcen within the church walls.


Ourcen: I hear you have done us the service of burying a fallen soul. Please accept our gratitude, and extend it to Isembard when next you see him.
Ourcen: Hm? You seek knowledge of missing Drybone inhabitants? It is true I am closer to the people than any other of the Order. I confide in them, and they in me. When they wish to speak to their keeper, Thal, I am the medium through which they do.
Ourcen: Should I learn anything pertinent, I will be sure to share the information with you. <sigh> I only wish Marques would be more helpful in the matter. I pray he did nothing to offend. He saw...terrible things during the Calamity... His scars run deep. Indeed, he seems to now prefer the company of the dead over the living.
Ourcen: While tragic, I fear such behavior ill befits the church. I received word not long ago that one of our recent visitors—a man called Thancred, I believe—took offense at his conduct. I must have words with Marques, and soon.


Isembard: Thank you, Coral. A burial is no easy thing─even when the departed is a stranger. Were you able to learn aught of the missing commonfolk?
Thancred: You've been keeping yourself rather busy of late, haven't you, Coral?
Thancred: A pleasure, my dear Isembard. The name is Thancred, and I share a passion with you and our mutual friend here for learning what has become of these missing persons and why.
Thancred: I, too, spoke with Ungust─more times than I care to count. There seems to be some truth to this notion of the commonfolk speaking their secrets only to those in service to the gods.
Thancred: Prostration, prayer, penance. Abject deeds done behind closed doors, away from prying eyes. Who better to take the pious unawares than she who takes confession─the good Sister Ourcen herself?
Isembard: Ourcen!? She wouldn't... She couldn't!
Thancred: Even the most beautiful roses have thorns, my friend. And you would be wise to keep an eye to this rose.
Thancred: Still, the lichkeeper Marques... I'd swear to the Twelve I've seen that face elsewhere before...


Lv. 19        For the Children [c]
Isembard: Sister Ourcen... It cannot be. Though, she is wont to travel to the Golden Bazaar on her own, and it is not uncommon to see her speaking to the children. But...no. It could not be she...could it?
Isembard: Hmmm... <sigh> I grow weary of these suspicions. I know there is one child in particular that she is fond of. Pray seek out the boy, Coral, and see if you cannot glean something from him about Ourcen's activities.


Uncombed Urchin: Please help! Sister Ourcen went out all on her own and hasn't come back!
Uncombed Urchin: She always reads to me right here, about Thal and the Order and the other side. I told her I lost my shiny thing and she went looking for it. But what if the monsters outside hurt her? Please find her!


Ourcen: You... You are the one from the church. Thank goodness you arrived when you did. It seems my gratitude is yours yet again.
Ourcen: You spoke with the child? Yes, well, I was able to find his lost trinket. It is a ring given him by his mother before she passed. I will see it safely back to him.


Isembard: Sister Ourcen was attacked outside the Golden Bazaar? Gods forfend... I will secure a room at the inn for her should she require any rest.
Isembard: Searching for the mementos of orphans? And risking her own well-being in the doing, no less? Certainly not the dastardly deeds Thancred would have us believe.


Lv. 19        Amalj’aa Wrong Places
Isembard: I am well glad I reserved that inn room for Sister Ourcen. It seems she received greater injuries from her attackers than she initially let on. Thankfully, she is expected to make a full recovery.
Isembard: But now, on to the matter at hand. Thancred came looking for you once more. He left word that he will be waiting at the Amalj'aa encampment to the southeast. I pray the two of you are able to uncover some evidence regarding these disappearances.


Thancred: Ah, there you are, Coral. So good of you to come!
Thancred: Indeed, I've heard all about good Sister Ourcen. Isembard said her wounds were serious. It would seem my suspicions about the poor rose were misplaced.
Thancred: But false though they were, perhaps my suspicions were not entirely without merit. Whilst following Sister Ourcen near the Golden Bazaar, a band of Amalj'aa caught my eye.
Thancred: I tracked them as far as this encampment, but... Well, let us say that I would much prefer to keep my distance and remain here. This, of course, brings me to why I requested you, dear Coral. Would you be so kind as to take a look inside?


Thancred: Well? Did anything tickle your fancy?
Thancred: This leaflet... “See the wealth of Nald to the hands of your children.” It looks to be some sort of assembly to provide the poor with work.
Thancred: The lettering, though... Atrocious, is it not? And these bits about Nald'thal seem somewhat...less than studied. I find it hard to believe one among the Order penned this.
Thancred: Pray take this to the inn at Camp Drybone. Let us see what Sister Ourcen makes of it.


Ourcen: My savior comes again. To what do I owe the honor this day?
Ourcen: What is this? Blasphemous... These are not our teachings at all! This was not made by any true brother or sister of the Order─of that, I can assure you.
Ourcen: Come to think of it, weeks ago, the church was plagued by missing garments. Could someone be posing as a priest of the Order to deceive the people?


Thancred: The plot thickens, Coral! Our culprit pretends to be a priest to lend credence to his deception. There is no doubt an irony in there somewhere.
Thancred: But I suspect we have a worthy adversary on our hands. I shall consider how best to handle this. For now, tell Isembard what we have learned here.


Isembard what we have learned here.
Isembard: Posing as a priest!? To think...
Isembard: These troubling notions aside, it is gratifying to finally be able to move this investigation forward. Thank you once again, Coral. I shall keep my ears and eyes open─now more than ever.


Lv. 19        Dressed to Deceive
Isembard: I'm afraid I have not seen any unusual activity. Nor have any at this camp given me cause to doubt them. But unless we can identify the culprit, and soon, more innocents will fall victim...
Thancred: Do not despair just yet, my friend. An idea occurs to me.
Thancred: Our suspect has been posing as a priest, using leaflets bearing false promises to lure the poor. Let Coral and me serve like with like by posing as impoverished souls in need of succor.
Isembard: Ah, I dare to hope that this will yield us the answers we seek. It will be a dangerous undertaking, but you two are more than capable of looking after yourselves.
Isembard: I'm next to useless in a battle, but I can supply the garments for the disguise. These old tunics and slops should serve your needs, so long as you don't mind the smell and the stains.
Thancred: These will serve very well. You have my thanks.
Thancred: Listen, Coral. So as to lay the foundation for our little ploy, we must make it widely known that more vagrants have arrived at camp and are desperate for coin.
Thancred: To this end, I want you to don the old garments Isembard has lent us, and beg for work around the camp. Before long, the false priest should catch wind and approach us.


Aurildis: What is it?
Aurildis: Gods, not again... Look, being poor doesn't give you the right to pester whomsoever you like. Why don't you keep with your own kind out by that muddy pond of yours at Drybone?
Knerl: Hm? And you are...?
Knerl: Hmph, another refugee, by the looks of you. The Immortal Flames have neither work nor coin for your like. Begone, and see to it you don't make a nuisance of yourself.
Swaenhylt: I preach the teachings of Azeyma, the Warden. Hast thou come to partake of the honey of Her wisdom?
Swaenhylt: Azeyma is keeper of the sun and goddess of inquiry. All is laid bare beneath the light of Her divine countenance. Open thy heart to this light, needy child, and thou shalt want for naught till the end of days!
Ermegarde: Greetings, good sir. Is there aught I might assist you with?
Ermegarde: ...Oh. I...don't believe there is. I'm afraid our wares are very expensive. Mayhap you should rejoin your fellows out at the pond north of Sandgate.
Adelstan: <sigh> And I was about to get to the good part...
Adelstan: Looking for work, you say? Sorry, but we don't have any openings. Now, get out of here so I can finish my story.


Thancred: You have quite a knack for being a nuisance, Coral. The camp is abuzz with talk of newly arrived vagrants.
Thancred: And though we were unable to attract our wayward transgressor, we were able to learn that the poor have a commune by the pond north of Sandgate, to the east of here. The eyes of the authorities do not reach that place─rather ideal for spiriting away hapless souls.
Thancred: Let us go there and wait for the kindly priest to come and offer us aid and comfort. Needless to say you'll need to remain in disguise.


Thancred: A fine evening for catching false priests, wouldn't you say?
Thancred: You look absolutely smashing, Coral─positively dressed for deception. All that's left, then, is to wait for our quarry to appear.
???: Oh, you poor, unfortunate souls. This is no way for men to live. No way at all.
Thancred: Who are you? What do you want?
???: Be at ease, child, for I mean you no harm. I am a priest of the Order of Nald'thal, and I come to offer you succor.
???: This leaflet bears the teachings of Nald. Trust to them, and they will surely set you free from the shackles of penury!
Thancred: Hmmm... A tempting offer, but I'm afraid I must decline...
Thancred: ...On account of that atrocious performance. You would have made a gods-awful mummer, Ungust.
Ungust: Wh-What!? How did you know─!? Y-You bastards tricked me!
Ungust: P-Please don't hurt me! I was only doing it to protect my people!
Thancred: Is that so? Do continue.
Ungust: V-Very well...
I'm a man of the Golden Bazaar. Raised there, if not born.
Ungust: Some moons ago, the Amalj'aa raids began. They would appear sudden as a sandstorm, and plunder and pillage at will. Our defenders couldn't stand against them, few as they were. Everyone lived in fear.
Ungust: I wanted to save my people, but being a merchant was all I knew. And so I did the only thing a merchant could─I approached the Amalj'aa in hopes of brokering a deal.
Ungust: In return for sparing the Golden Bazaar, they made demands─outrageous ones.
Thancred: Demands? Of what kind, pray tell?
Ungust: First of all, they wanted the schedule for crystal shipments from the Nanawa Mines. For this, I bribed one of the workers to leak me the information.
Ungust: Next, they wanted me to bring them people. So, I posed as a priest to lure in the vulnerable and give them over to the Amalj'aa. I...I didn't have a choice...
Thancred: Protecting one's home is a noble thing...but at the cost of innocents? You could have sought the aid of the Immortal Flames, yet you did not. I suspect you are not telling me the full story. What made you sell out your own people? Speak!
Ungust: The...<mumble>...was good...
Thancred: What did you say?


Ungust: The coin was good, I said! I could sell mole meat for a score lifetimes and not see even a fraction of what the Amalj'aa pay me!
Thancred: You sacrificed innocents so that you could line your own pockets? Words fail to express the contempt I feel for you.
Ungust: Spare me your contempt! If you want to blame someone for the mess the world's in, then blame yourselves or the gods!


[The hero approach him from behind]
Ungust: Uwaaah! Not you again!
Thancred: Were you the one leaking the Immortal Flames' patrol routes to the enemy as well? Spit it out!
Ungust: Nooo! I know nothing about that! I swear it!
Thancred: At this stage, I'm rather disinclined to believe aught that leaves your mouth. But no matter. There'll be time enough to learn the truth.
Ungust: <sob>
Thancred: Coral. Be a good man and take word of these developments to Minfilia, would you?
Thancred: I shall prize everything I can out of this filth.
Thancred: The abductees are still somewhere out there. Our foremost priority is to rescue them.


Minfilia: Welcome back, Coral. I am pleased that you and Thancred have been getting along.
Minfilia: I see... You have done well to uncover the truth. My thanks for the report.
Minfilia: As Thancred said, we must ascertain where the abducted were taken...and none but the Amalj'aa know the answer.
Minfilia: Suffice it to say they will not willingly part with this information. I fear blood will be spilled before all is said and done.


Lv. 19        Life, Materia and Everything [lore] [c]
Minfilia: Though we seek a peaceful solution to the primal problem, we must needs be ready to fight for our cause. That you might take to the field suitably prepared, I would have you meet with a goblin acquaintance of mine. His name is Mutamix Bubblypots, and he is a scholar of no small repute.
Minfilia: Mutamix is renowned for having introduced a revolutionary method of enhancing equipment to Eorzea.
Minfilia: The knowledge of this method was once a closely guarded secret, but thanks to Mutamix and his students, it has now been disseminated to the great benefit of all the realm.
Minfilia: It would serve you well to acquire an understanding of the process. For this purpose, I shall lend you a blade. Take it to Mutamix, and bid him use it to demonstrate his craft to you.
Minfilia: Mutamix is ever to be found at his camp in central Thanalan─a place known as the Bonfire. Look for a pillar of smoke, and the way will become clear.


Mutamix Bubblypots: Pshhh... Shkohhh...?
Who is uplander come to tent-ring of Mutamix Bubblypots?
Swynbroes: Fighty-tool drinks in airyself.
F'hobhas: When full of airyself, fighty-tool changes to stonyshine, name of materia.
Kokosamu: If materia join with other fighty-tool...
Mutamix Bubblypots: Then bigeyes! Fighty-tool gains power of airyself!
Mutamix Bubblypots: Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Mutamix is reckoning that uplander is friend of Minfilia.
Mutamix Bubblypots: Yesss, tongueflaps reach ears of Mutamix with fastness.
Mutamix Bubblypots: Minfilia wants uplander to see power of materia. Uplander brings fighty-tool to Mutamix, yes?
Mutamix Bubblypots: Shkohhh! Fighty-tool is unstrong as eating-tool! Make good teachy-show of power of materia!
Swynbroes: The materia, Master.
Mutamix Bubblypots: Now eyes of uplander point at fighty-tool, yes?
Pshhh... Shkohhh... Materia join with fighty-tool...
Mutamix Bubblypots: Fighty-tool gains power of materia! Fighty-tool reborn! Here, uplander take fighty-tool to Minfilia!
Swynbroes: Materia, strictly speaking, is a kind of crystal. It is created by reducing equipment into its aetheric constituents and then crystallizing them.
F'hobhas: Not just any old equipment will serve, mind you. It must have sufficient spiritbond─that being a measure of how fully an item has been imbued with its owner's spirit.
Kokosamu: When ye attach a piece o' materia to gear, ye imbue the host item with its power. That's how Master Mutamix turned that dagger o' yours from summat as would've struggled to cut steak into a weapon worth wieldin'.
Mutamix Bubblypots: Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Uplander wishes to be joiner of materia?
Mutamix Bubblypots: Then uplander best fill braincase with knowings of crafty-making.
Mutamix Bubblypots: With knowings of crafty-making, uplander can become joiner of materia.
Mutamix Bubblypots: If uplander wants braincase to rattle with knowings of materia, uplander best trade tongueflaps with learny-ones of Mutamix.


Minfilia: Welcome back, Coral. I trust your visit to the Bonfire proved fruitful.
Minfilia: Ahhh...what a remarkable difference a single piece of materia can make! Granted, the skills needed to manipulate the substance are not easily acquired, but one need only look upon the results to realize such efforts are worthwhile.
Minfilia: As I am sure you are aware, the quality of one's equipment can be the difference between victory and defeat. Materia may well give you the edge you need, Coral, so make it your ally.
Minfilia: Now, it is time we discussed the matter of your next mission. Pray speak with me when you are ready to begin.




Lv. 20        Lord of the Inferno [lore] [c]
Minfilia: Word has arrived from Thancred concerning our ongoing investigation.
Minfilia: It appears he was able to extract some information from our friend Ungust, the false priest.
Minfilia: He revealed that he is due to meet with the Amalj'aa to discuss their dealings.
Minfilia: The Immortal Flames believe that the meeting will present an ideal opportunity to ambush and capture the Amalj'aa responsible for the abductions, and so they mean to have Ungust attend as planned.
Minfilia: As the Amalj'aa are anticipated to offer fierce resistance, the Immortal Flames have requested our support.
Minfilia: I would have you provide it to them, Coral. Thancred is presently attending to another matter, but will join you as soon as he is able. Until such time as he does, you will be the Scions' sole representative on the ground.
Minfilia: Before he left, he bade me tell you to “save some for him.” Such is his confidence in you─a confidence I share.
Minfilia: When you have made ready, pray take yourself to Camp Drybone and report to the flame sergeant leading the mission. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.


Flame Sergeant: Ah, you're Coral Ferrinas of the Scions? My thanks for coming, friend. We're stronger for your assistance.
Flame Sergeant: Allow me to brief you on our mission. Our objective is to capture Amalj'aa and prize from them the whereabouts of the abductees.
Flame Sergeant: The lizardmen aren't aware that their man, Ungust, has been exposed. When they come to the rendezvous point to meet the traitor, we'll spring the trap.
Flame Sergeant: Owing to the clandestine nature of the mission, we can deploy only a small contingent. Every member must count, and so we requested the aid of the Scions.
Flame Sergeant: The rendezvous will take place at the Invisible City. Please make your way there and lie in wait.
Flame Sergeant: We stand to learn much and more of the Amalj'aa plot if the mission succeeds, Coral. Let's make sure it does.


[At the scene, Ungust is meeting the Amalj’aa]
Flame Sergeant: Is the bait in place?
Flame Private: Our man is in position, sir.
Flame Sergeant: Good. We make our move as soon as the Amalj'aa appear.
Flame Private: Yes, sir!


[The Flames ambushed]
Ungust: Uwaaah!
Amalj'aa Warrior: What is the meaning of this!?


[A private noticed something]
Flame Private: Wait. Something's amiss…


[More Amalj’aa appears]
Ungust: Hee hee hee...
Traitorous Flame Soldier: Ahahahahaha!
Traitorous Flame Soldier: I'm afraid your little ambush ends here!
Ungust: I eluded the Immortal Flames' clutches for moons before finally being caught. Did you not wonder how I managed it?
Traitorous Flame Soldier: 'Twas almost as if someone was feedin' him information from the inside! Gahahaha!
Ungust: Aye, your every movement was known to me ahead of time! Hee hee hee!
Ungust: Now, as much as I'd love to chat awhile, I have appointments to keep.
Traitorous Flame Soldier: They're all yours!


[Battle]
Ungust: Hee hee! Our Amalj'aa friends will keep you company!
Flame Sergeant: Filthy traitors! When I get my hands on you...
Flame Gladiator: Arrrgh!
Ungust: Hee hee! How long will you last, I wonder!?
Flame Sergeant: Another wave! Stay sharp, men!.
Flame Thaumaturge: N-Not here...not like this...Flame Sergeant: Godsdammit, is there no end to them!?
Ungust: Hee hee! The show is only just beginning!


[Battle End]
Traitorous Flame Soldier: Put up your weapon, or your comrade's a dead man!
Flame Private: Behind you!
Ungust: Bring him.
Traitorous Flame Soldier: The rest of you, march!
Flame Sergeant: Traitorous scum...


[NPC Intteraction]
Captured Flame Private: They're going to kill us, aren't they!? Gods, I don't want to die! I want to go home! <sob>
Captured Flame Private: The lizardmen marched us to their stronghold.
Captured Flame Private: They're preparing for something...and I for one do not want to be around when they finish.
Flame Sergeant: I fear the Amalj'aa mean to give us to their god as an offering. If I must die, then let me die a soldier's death─with steel in hand!


Flame Sergeant: Damn it all... A traitor in the Flames! What has become of us...?
Flame Sergeant: I'm sorry you were dragged into this. Were I a better judge of character, we wouldn't be in this mess…


Flame Private: Listen well. These waters feed into the marshes of Drybone. A short swim will see us to freedom.
Flame Private: However, if all of us attempt to flee, we are like to be discovered. You alone must sneak out and assemble a rescue party.
Flame Private: Once you have won free, seek out our comrade stationed at Drybone. He will show you the way back here. May the Twelve speed your way.


Adala: The lizards claim they will soon bring us before Ifrit for tempering. You're not seriously considering locking horns with the devil now, are you?


Adala: They say no one who enters the Bowl of Embers leaves with their minds in tact. Why do you think you will fare any better?


Amalj'aa Warrior: Rejoice, heathens, for your worthless lives shall soon have meaning!


[Scene: The amalj’aa presented the hostage to an open space, the sky is red and an unnatural eclipse hovering above the sky]
Amalj'aa Zealots: Lord of the Inferno, hearken to our plea!
Lord of the Inferno, deliver us from our misery!
Temugg Zoh: O mighty Ifrit, Lord of the Inferno!
Temugg Zoh: Your humble servants beseech you! Grace us with Your divine presence!
Temugg Zoh: O mighty Ifrit! We bring before you ignorant savages who know not Your godhead!


[Ifrit appeared, summoned from the eclipse]
Temugg Zoh: If it please You, Lord, scorch their heathen souls with Your cleansing flame, and mark them as Your own!
Flame Sergeant: B-Bloody hells...
Amalj'aa Warrior: Bring those two as well!


[Ungust and the Traitorous Flame soldier is bounded]
Ungust: Unnngh...
Traitorous Flame Soldier: Wh-What's going on!? Th-This ain't what we agreed!
Amalj'aa Warrior: None but servants of Lord Ifrit may behold the rite of summoning. The souls of unbelievers are forfeit!
Ungust: Nooo! Spare me, I beg you!
Ifrit: Pitiful children of man! By my breath I claim you!
Ifrit: Arise once more as my loyal minions! Feed my flames with your faith, and all who stand against us shall burn!


[Ifrit released some kind of magic, however, it does not affect the Adventurer]
Flame Sergeant: O mighty Ifrit...
Flame Private: My one true god...
Traitorous Flame Soldier: Your words are my bread...
Temugg Zoh: Impossible! By what sorcery do you resist my master's will!?
Temugg Zoh: Could it be...?
Temugg Zoh: Your soul already belongs to another!? Yes, that is the only explanation!
Ifrit: Forsooth, thy frail mortal frame can serve as vessel to the blessing of but One.
Ifrit: Yet I smell not the taint of another upon thee...
Ifrit: The truth of thine allegiance waxeth clear─thou art of the godless blessed's number.
Ifrit: The Paragons warned of thine abhorrent kind. Thine existence is not to be suffered.


[Battle]
Ifrit: My flames shall consume thy flesh and soul both!
Ifrit: Succumb to the inferno!
Ifrit: Surrender thyself to the fires of judgment!
Ifrit: Thy soul shall burn for eternity!
Ifrit: Thou art strong, mortal!
Ifrit: The blessing of Light...defies me!?


[After Battle, Adventure found a red crystal. enter the crystal realm and the red crystal was added into his posession, along with the blue crystal]


Thancred: Pray forgive my lateness!
Thancred: I was delayed by a congregation of Amalj'aa zealots. I swear, each seemed more evangelical than the last.
Thancred: Hmph! Persistent lot!
Thancred: Phew...
Thancred: I see the Bloodsworn wasted no time extracting the captives. No less than I'd expect from the Flame General's hand-picked men.
Thancred: As for those two...it is fair to say their hardships have only just begun. They have much to answer for.
Thancred: I feel I owe you an apology, Coral. Had I known this mission would prove so dangerous, I would never have left you to face it alone. You have been given a veritable baptism of fire.
Thancred: But let us continue this conversation in more agreeable surrounds. Camp Drybone, shall we say?
Flame Soldier: This way, sir!




[High up on the plateau]
Nero Tol Scaeva: So that was the mighty Ifrit...
Nero Tol Scaeva: And what a disappointment he was. The readings are nowhere near what I had anticipated, even taking Ul'dahn interference into account.
???: You should know better than to rely upon five-year-old data left by the VIIth Legion.
???: Nor can we expect any form of support from the motherland, given the troubles at court. We have only ourselves to rely upon.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Ever the pessimist, my dear Livia. Promise me you'll never change.
Livia Sas Junius: We've wasted enough time here. That meter of yours is too old to give any reading worth a damn.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Not that there was aught worth a damn for it to read...but I take your point. I suppose we must content ourselves with the knowledge that we've achieved our primary objective.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Yet I find that I am troubled by that adventurer's unexpected show of strength. Could such a foe prove a hindrance to our plans?
Livia Sas Junius: Perhaps─but that is a consideration for another time.
Livia Sas Junius: You have been given a task. That is your priority. I suggest you treat it as such.
Livia Sas Junius: Fail to do as my lord commands...
Livia Sas Junius: ...And I will spare him the trouble of punishing you.
Nero Tol Scaeva: With allies like that...
Nero Tol Scaeva: Beware a woman in love. I shall need to be on my best behavior.




[Back in Camp Drybone]
Thancred: Ah, there you are, Coral. Come, rest awhile─you will have no better opportunity. After witnessing their god's ignominious defeat, the Amalj'aa will be less inclined to risk our wrath─for a time, at least.
Thancred: Now, where were we? Ah yes, I was in the process of apologizing. I do hope you can forgive me. I arrived too late to be of any use...to you or the abductees.
Thancred: They may be whole of body, but the same cannot be said of their minds. For once a man is tempered...
Thancred: Ah, but it ill suits me to dwell on the negatives. Amidst all our misfortunes, there is still reason to rejoice. Ifrit is slain, and by your hand, no less!
Thancred: That is the deed of no ordinary individual, Coral. Not that I ever thought you were ordinary. On the contrary, I have long suspected that you have the potential to shape the fate of this realm. What can I say? My fine eye for talent remains undimmed.
Thancred: Minfilia will be proud beyond all reckoning when she hears of your deeds. I trust you shan't object to my bearing the tidings to her. That way I can claim to have contributed something to this mission.
Thancred: You, meanwhile, have earned yourself a rest. Take some time to relax, and return to the Waking Sands when you are good and ready. We can discuss matters in more detail then. Just don't take too long, will you? The realm's problems won't solve themselves.


Scion of the Seventh Dawn: Ah, the triumphant hero returns!
Scion of the Seventh Dawn: Thancred told us the news upon his arrival. He is presently in the solar, giving a full report to Lady Minfilia.
Scion of the Seventh Dawn: You should join them at once. Lady Minfilia is most eager to see you.
Thancred: ...My late arrival nearly cost Coral his life. I wasn't there when the Amalj'aa took him prisoner...
Thancred: And I wasn't there when they served him to Ifrit...
Thancred: Yes, by some miracle, he survived─but that does not excuse the fact that he should never have had to face such dangers alone. I failed him utterly.
Thancred: Just as I'm failing you all...
Minfilia: What's done is done, Thancred. You can ill blame yourself for every─
Minfilia: Coral! It is so good to see you again!
Thancred: Impeccable timing, my friend. I had just finished regaling Minfilia with your heroic exploits.
Minfilia: Thancred has told me everything. You have done well to return to us.
Thancred: The perils you faced were undeniably great, yet a part of me believes that I had no cause to fear. And now we can put paid to our long investigation.
Thancred: As we suspected, the Amalj'aa undertook both the robbery and the abductions with the aim of summoning their primal, Ifrit.
Minfilia: Nor is this tale limited to Ul'dah. Similar incidents have been rife in both Limsa Lominsa and Gridania of late.
Thancred: I daresay you've been curious as to how these crimes are linked to the primals. Permit me to explain.
Thancred: Having manifested in the physical realm, primals must consume aether if they are to maintain their presence here. And the stronger they become, the more aether they require.
Thancred: Now, aether exists throughout creation. It flows through all life, and permeates the very air that we breathe.
Thancred: Alas, this alone will not suffice to sustain the likes of Ifrit. Nay, he and his kind require a more concentrated source of aether─crystals.
Minfilia: It is for this reason that incidents involving crystals can often be traced back to a primal.
Thancred: Which leaves us with the why of the abductions. To understand this, you must first understand how primals are born.
Thancred: When all is well with the world, primals possess no physical form. Their essence is dispersed across the great river of aether.
Minfilia: However, when the world is plunged into chaos, those who worship the primals cry out to their gods for deliverance from suffering.
Minfilia: These cries serve as a beacon toward which a primal's essence is irresistibly drawn. It is this coming together─or “aetheric coalescence”─which grants the beings physical form.
Minfilia: Once born, a primal gains strength from its followers' worship. The more numerous and fervent they are, the more powerful their god becomes.
Thancred: But the primals are seldom satisfied with such reverence as their adherents freely give, and in order to gain more power, they do not scruple to create followers. They do this by “tempering” mortals─a process to which you yourself were subjected.
Minfilia: Yet even as Ifrit took your comrades in his thrall, you alone remained unaffected. This is thanks to the power you possess─the Echo.
Minfilia: We know not the why of it, but those blessed with the Echo are immune to primal influence.
Minfilia: It is as though a greater power protects us...
Minfilia: When first you came to us, I told you that the Echo would be instrumental in dealing with the primal threat. I trust you now begin to see why.
Thancred: The recent incidents all share a common trait: meticulous planning. Such elaborate designs are a new development, and one which fills me with an unshakable sense of foreboding.
Minfilia: While I share your concern, my presiding feeling is one of relief at your safe return.
Minfilia: Ah, the Immortal Flames assured me that they will deal with the aftermath, so you need not concern yourself with that. We may rest easy for a time.
Minfilia: I suggest you take full advantage of the respite, Coral.
Minfilia: You may be sure it won't last long. Once the people learn the identity of the hero who felled Ifrit, I fear you will have nary a moment to yourself!
Thancred: Whether she intended to or no, Minfilia neglected to tell you something─something I think it would be best you heard from one of us.
Thancred: It concerns the tempered abductees that were rescued... I am sorry to report that all are to be put to death, the Flames with whom you were imprisoned included. Needless to say, this information must not be made known to the public.
Thancred: I swear to you that we would not do this if there were any other recourse─but once a man is tempered, he is tempered for life. His very existence lends strength to the primal whom he cannot choose but worship.
Thancred: And so we Scions continue our fight, that no more innocents need be sacrificed. I hope that you will continue to stand with us, Coral.
Thancred: But I should be going. I must offer my apologies to the Flame General for the losses his people suffered. Till next time!
Thancred: Gods forgive me... How many more lives...? Louisoix would never have allowed this to happen.
Thancred: I have to do better... I have to be stronger...




Lv. 20        A Hero in the Making
Minfilia: Until not so very long ago, you were but one of the many adventurers seeking to make their way in Eorzea.
Minfilia: But for your character and courage, you were raised to the esteemed post of envoy. Thereafter, you traveled the realm, aiding those in need without thought of reward, confirming to Yda and Papalymo that the Scions would benefit from your aid. And no sooner had you joined us than you personally bested the primal Ifrit.
Minfilia: You have achieved a great deal in a short time, and won fame in so doing. Alas, fame does not come without a price, as you will soon discover.
Minfilia: We have guests, Coral─or rather...you have guests.


???: Beg pardons!
Flame Officer: Ahhh, Lady Minfilia. Radiant as always!
Serpent Officer: I am given to understand that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have but recently welcomed a new hero into their midst! 
Storm Officer: I am here on behalf of the Maelstrom, Grand Company of Limsa Lominsa, to offer said hero a place of honor within our ranks!
Minfilia: As you can see, Coral, your recent exploits have garnered you the attentions of the Grand Companies of Eorzea.
Minfilia: Each organization would have Ifrit's bane for its own. To this end, all three have sent officers to court you.
Minfilia: They would not ordinarily go to such lengths to enlist a new recruit. That they have is evidence of their high regard for you.
Minfilia: I find myself wondering how word of Coral's deeds spread so quickly. That the Immortal Flames should know of his triumph is to be expected...but what of the other Grand Companies?
Tataru: Eep!
Serpent Officer: Your reputation precedes you, Master Ferrinas! 'Tis no ordinary man who can face a primal and emerge the victor!
Serpent Officer: And imagine our pride when we learned that you began your journey as an adventurer in our own Gridania! Know that the people hold you in high esteem, and that you will always be welcome among us.
Serpent Officer: The Order of the Twin Adder has need of valiant men such as you. Join your strength to ours, friend, and together let us ensure that peace ever reigns over the Twelveswood!
Flame Officer: What a pleasure it is to finally meet you, Master Ferrinas! My comrades speak of you in the most glowing terms!
Flame Officer: A man of your talent belongs with the Immortal Flames. Join your strength to ours, friend, and together let us secure a prosperous future for Ul'dah!
Storm Officer: The Admiral was not exaggerating when she said you have the look of a hero! Full often does she speak of you, friend.
Storm Officer: It is only natural that we should want you for the Maelstrom. Join your strength to ours, and together let us see the grand vessel of Limsa Lominsa to the shores of glory!


Grand Company Officers: Lady Minfilia!
Minfilia: <sigh> Very well...
Minfilia: Though I am quite sure you need no reminding, mayhap a brief summary of the situation would help to clarify your thoughts on this matter. As you know, the Grand Companies are all-encompassing organizations empowered to call upon the martial, economic, and technological resources of their respective city-states in times of strife.
Minfilia: There are presently three such organizations in Eorzea: the Maelstrom of Limsa Lominsa, the Order of the Twin Adder of Gridania, and the Immortal Flames of Ul'dah.
Minfilia: Serving a Grand Company means serving the nation to which it belongs. You will be charged with its defense, and tasked with advancing its cause.
Minfilia: In return for your faithful service, you will be furnished with various rewards, some of which may well prove useful to you in your other endeavors.
Minfilia: If you are agonizing over which of the Grand Companies best deserves your loyalty, be at ease─the commitment you make this day need not be permanent. Should you wish to shift your allegiance at a later date, you are entitled to do so. And yet...I concede that it is no small choice you face...
Minfilia: Ah! A thought occurs to me! You will, of course, recall that the three city-states are planning to hold remembrance services.
Minfilia: Well, as part of the proceedings, I am given to understand that the leader of each Grand Company will deliver an address.
Minfilia: Hearing these addresses ought to help you make an informed decision. What say you, my dear officers?
Serpent Officer: A fine suggestion!
Flame Officer: You are as wise as you are beautiful, my lady!
Storm Officer: Very well! Let Coral hear our leaders speak, then return here with his decision.
Grand Company Officers: We eagerly await your answer!
Minfilia: I know full well that adventurers are by their nature a liberty-loving breed, and not best suited to the discipline of military service, but I strongly urge you to join a Grand Company nonetheless. While the promise of reward is enticing in itself, it is not the only benefit.
Minfilia: You are possessed of great power, Coral, and with it you are capable of doing untold good. Yet know that great power is wont to attract attention─not all of it friendly.
Minfilia: There will be those who wish you ill, and you must needs be on the lookout for them. Yet however vigilant you are, you are but one man. In the midst of a Grand Company, however, you will be one man amongst many─a friend amongst friends. Your achievements will be shared, and so will the danger. I can think of no better arrangement.
Minfilia: Of course, joining one organization need not mean leaving another. I hope that we can continue to rely upon your aid─the Twelve know that we will have need of it in the days ahead.
Minfilia: The Grand Companies seek to protect their own nations. We Scions, on the other hand, seek to preserve the future of Eorzea as a whole. Similar, yet not quite the same.
Minfilia: Now then, I expect that you will be afield more often in the future.


Minfilia: As such, I would have you carry this linkpearl with you at all times. It will allow us to stay in touch regardless of location.
Minfilia: Eorzea is changing, Coral, and you have the power to help shape it anew.
Minfilia: None can say what the morrow will bring, but so long as we believe in ourselves, there is naught we cannot achieve.
Minfilia: Now, it is time you made ready for your journey. Before you depart, be sure to speak to Tataru. She will apprise you as to where and when the remembrance services are due to take place.


[NPC interaction]
Minfilia: With the power you possess, there will be those who wish you ill, and you must needs be on the lookout for them. Yet however vigilant you are, you are but one man.aren
Minfilia: In the midst of a Grand Company, however, you will be one man amongst many─a friend amongst friends. Your achievements will be shared, and so will the danger.
Serpent Officer: The Elder Seedseer speaks only truth, and her words have the power to touch the soul. At the sound of her voice, all fall silent and attend her.
Flame Officer: The Flame General is a passionate man, and his words never fail to light a fire in the belly of those who listen. I am sure you will be no exception!
Storm Officer: When the Admiral speaks, even pirates listen, and that is no small thing. She is a born leader─the kind one would gladly follow to the seventh hell!
Urianger: The destruction that visited this land cannot be attributed to the forces of the Empire alone.
Urianger: Wyrm of midnight; of breath infernal... For some, a legend made flesh; for others, an insidious symbol of memory lost.
Urianger: We grasp but a piece of this puzzle. Much and more must we question and contemplate ere the fallen moon revealeth its myriad secrets.
Y'shtola: I have heard word of your deeds. I am sparing in my praise, so know that you have truly impressed me.
Y'shtola: Be that as it may, it is fortunate that Thancred arrived when he did. Had he been but a moment later, I shudder to think what may have transpired.
Arenvald: An experienced warrior like A'aba won't die so easily. He's strong, fast, cunning... Aye, he'll come back safe.
Aulie: I must confess, I do rather miss that obnoxious Miqo'te's company.
Aulie: A'aba is taking part in a joint operation with the Immortal Flames. I imagine he's having the time of his life right now.
Brendt: Everythin' looks to be in order. Right─on to the next customer...
Una Tayuun: <crunch> <crunch> ...
<crunch> <crunch> ...Oh, hello again, laddie! Meet Percevains─we was thick as thieves in the old days. Least, I think we was.
Una Tayuun: ...Or it might've been that he was a right creepy bastard, an' I did me best t' avoid him. Still, we was both members o' the old order, so either way we're in this together, eh?
Thancred: You've put us all to shame with your recent performance in the field. If I'm to keep up, I daresay I'll need bigger knives!
Yda: Speeches? Oh, yes, I love them. There's nothing like a good exposition when you're having trouble sleeping!
Papalymo: Five years ago, the three Grand Companies joined as one and fought the Garlean Empire at the Carteneau Flats.
Papalymo: And now, for the first time, the people will gather to remember those who fell in the battle.
Papalymo: That being said, no one has any clear memory of what transpired that fateful day─not even the leaders of each nation.


Tataru: I, um... I'm sorry about all the attention you're getting, Coral... I might have sung your praises a little too loudly...and often...to a few too many people. Ahem. Next time, I'll be sure to hold my tongue─literally, if necessary.
Tataru: Anyway, I expect you want to know where and when the remembrance services are taking place?
Tataru: If all goes to plan, Gridania's Grand Company, the Order of the Twin Adder, will hold the first of the three services, and Elder Seedseer Kan-E-Senna will deliver her address at Mih Khetto's Amphitheatre.
Tataru: I should probably mention at this point that due to the organizational challenges involved in assembling all of the involved parties, it's possible that the order of the services might change... Still, there's not much we can do about that, so make Gridania your first port of call.
Tataru: Next, you'll need to go to Ul'dah, where Flame General Raubahn Aldynn will be addressing the masses at the Royal Promenade. Oh, and it's rumored there's to be a special guest! How exciting.
Tataru: Last but not least, you must make your way to the Stateroom in Limsa Lominsa, where Maelstrom Chief Admiral Merlwyb Bloefhiswyn will be giving her address.
Tataru: The room is accessible via the Admiral's Lift. Identify yourself to the sentry, Zanthael, and he will admit you. Got all that?
Tataru: Well, off you go, then. I hope you find the remembrance services suitably educational! Oh, and don't forget the order in which they're due to take place, will you? It's Gridania, then Ul'dah, and finally Limsa─barring delays, that is. Farewell!


[Gridania’s Remembrance Service]
Kan-E-Senna: Our forebears were once strangers in the Twelveswood.
Kan-E-Senna: Fearful of the greenwrath, they hid themselves in the dark recesses of the earth. Yet they dreamed of basking in the dappled sunlight of the forest.
Kan-E-Senna: Through great effort, they proved their worth to the elementals, and were granted a place beneath the boughs. So it was that Gridania was born, some five centuries ago.
Kan-E-Senna: Working hand in hand, the Hyur and the Elezen settlers sowed the seeds of our civilization. And soon they were joined by folk of all races.
Kan-E-Senna: So nourished by the waters of unity and blessed by the light of the Matron, Gridania flourished into the great nation it is today.


[Alphinaud and Alisaea appeared]
Self-assured Youth: Do you see the Gridanian standard? There, hanging behind the Elder Seedseer.
Self-assured Youth: The entwined serpents represent the unity between Hyur and Elezen. An elegant symbol, do you not agree?
Kan-E-Senna: In accordance with the will of the elementals, we have embraced a life of peace. Alas, our neighbors have not always sought the same for themselves─nor for us.
Kan-E-Senna: Though we Gridanians have no love for war, we have still less for those who would threaten our way of life. Ever have we fought to protect the sanctity of the Twelveswood.
Kan-E-Senna: When the Garlean Empire brought its war of conquest to Eorzea, we rallied under the noble standard of the Twin Adder, that we might push back the encroaching darkness.
Kan-E-Senna: And it was we who prepared the ground for the reformation of the Eorzean Alliance, that all the peoples of this realm might stand united against the common threat.
Kan-E-Senna: Five years ago, the Alliance met the armies of the Empire upon the fields of Carteneau.
Kan-E-Senna: It would prove the bloodiest battle in recent memory. Countless Gridanian lives were lost.
Kan-E-Senna: As supreme commander of the Order of the Twin Adder, ever shall I bear the weight of our people's sacrifice.
Kan-E-Senna: Alas, their loss was not the only tragedy to befall us that day, for soon came the Calamity.
Kan-E-Senna: The scars borne by our forest are a constant reminder of its violence. Our lives have been irrevocably changed, each waking hour a struggle to survive.
Kan-E-Senna: Driven to desperation, some among us have strayed from the path of righteousness, resorting to banditry, poaching, and other unconscionable deeds.
Kan-E-Senna: To compound our woes, the Ixal have returned in force, emboldened by our suffering. They test our defenses nigh without cease, and prey upon the vulnerable.
Kan-E-Senna: So beleaguered from within and without, it is of little wonder that our unity now falters. Dark times are upon us.Kan-E-Senna: We are gathered here to honor the fallen.
Kan-E-Senna: Let them be honored not only in word and thought, but through concerted action!
Kan-E-Senna: I bid you join hands with me once more beneath the Twin Adder standard!
Kan-E-Senna: And together, let us heal the forest's wounds, that our progeny might live in harmony beneath these ancient boughs. For serenity, purity, and sanctity!


Alphinaud: If you'll permit me. Alphinaud.
Alphinaud: ...And my sister, Alisaie, at your service.
Kan-E-Senna: On this day, five years ago, countless Eorzeans laid down their lives that we might behold another dawn. Please join with me in honoring their memory.


[Aliseae speaks]
Cynical Girl: And how do you propose to honor the memory of those you cannot remember, pray tell?


Kan-E-Senna: The destruction wrought by the Calamity was indiscriminate─it dealt death to Eorzean and Garlean alike.
Kan-E-Senna: Yet while we have labored to rebuild our homes─to rebuild our lives─the Empire has set about raising steel fortresses here in the Twelveswood.
Kan-E-Senna: Let none be mistaken─the Garleans remain the greatest threat to our survival. If we are to stand against them, we must remember what it is to be united.
Kan-E-Senna: Our many troubles blind us to the woes of our fellow man. Then is harmony lost. Yet harmony is the founding principle of Gridania.


Alphinaud: I saw at a glance that you were a fellow traveler.
Alphinaud: You might call us students of history, sampling the realm's remembrances in pursuit of...enlightenment.
Alphinaud: The Gridanians are unfortunate enough to have to contend with two beast tribes.
Alphinaud: The Ixal are unquestionably the more troublesome, being of a naturally warlike disposition, and want to summon their bloodthirsty primal, Garuda.
Alphinaud: The sylphs, by contrast, are peaceful in nature, being mischievous rather than malevolent, and have long been on friendly terms with the Gridanians─until recently, at least. Alas, they have grown aloof, a change observed at roughly the time they summoned the primal Ramuh.
Alphinaud: The Gridanians have no love for war, and they consider open conflict a last resort.
Alphinaud: Though they clash with the Ixal ever more regularly, you may be assured that they do so in self-defense. As for the sylphs...they are as yet bound by a peace treaty, though one wonders how long it will be before it is broken.
Alphinaud: The Twelveswood was grievously wounded during the Calamity, leaving Gridania vulnerable to attack. The people are hopeful that restoring the wood─and thereby the power of the elementals─will put an end to their woes. Yet how long will that take? Centuries, I'd wager.
Alphinaud: Meanwhile, the Ixal will continue their incursions, spurred on by Garuda and her insatiable appetite for destruction.
Alphinaud: Whether the Gridanians like it or not, sooner or later it will come to all-out war. And when it does, the Order of the Twin Adder will need all the help it can muster.
Alphinaud: ...How valuable might the aid of a capable adventurer prove to them then?
Alphinaud: Well, perhaps we will find out─if the Elder Seedseer's words fell on fertile ground...


[Ul’dah Remembrance Service]
Raubahn: Hark you, souls of flame, drawn to the bosom of the desert, where the fire burns brightest and shall reign forevermore!
Raubahn: Where since antiquity, under the sage and judicious rule of the Ul Dynasty, we have wrought sand into gold!
Raubahn: Where by the Grace and Glory of Nald'thal have our brave sons and daughters flourished and prospered─I speak of Ul'dah!
Alphinaud: There, at the Flame General's back flies the Grand Company's standard.
Alphinaud: Note the sigil. The golden scales of order balance the jewel of prosperity with the flame of might.
Raubahn: Great and many are the gifts our nation has given the realm.
Raubahn: In Eorzea's darkest hour, on the killing fields of Carteneau, none spent more in blood and gold than we.
Raubahn: Thus was the VIIth Imperial Legion laid low!
Alphinaud: So that's how it happened! How soon history forgets.
Raubahn: Yet many left our gates, never to return.
Raubahn: Let us pray for our absent brothers and sisters, that they might know happiness in the great beyond, as Thal's honored guests.
Raubahn: If the fates were fair, the price we paid that day would have bought us victory. Alas, they are not.
Raubahn: And now, but five years into this Seventh Umbral Era, the spirit of sacrifice which granted us our strength is all but dead.
Raubahn: Look around you. What do you see? A people divided, downtrodden and enthralled!
Raubahn: Where are the merciful alms of the rich? Where is the just steel of the righteous?
Raubahn: I ask you: is this the great nation our brothers and sisters gave their lives to save?
Raubahn: You who call this “living” dishonor the name of the Immortal Flames─it is but a slow death!
Raubahn: Our enemies surround us. The savage hordes of the Amalj'aa wait beside our roads, strangling the lifelines of trade.
Raubahn: Meanwhile, the Garleans make a mockery of our borders, and despoil our land of its natural wealth.
Raubahn: We stand on a precipice...yet we do not act.
Raubahn: Whether trader or soldier, Monetarist or Royalist, all must recognize that a divided Ul'dah stands to fall.
Raubahn: Victory and Fortune walk hand-in-hand!
Raubahn: Ye who seek glory and wealth! Look not to what little you can snatch from your neighbor, but to the boundless wealth of the world beyond!
Raubahn: Now is the time to unite! Now is the time to ride forth!
Raubahn: In the name of the sultana, I beseech you!
Raubahn: Line not your own coffers, but those of the Immortal Flames! Seek not to prosper from Ul'dah, but to restore her to prosperity!
Raubahn: As the realm prospers, so shall Ul'dah. As Ul'dah prospers, so shall her people!
Raubahn: Your Grace.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Raubahn.
Nanamo Ul Namo: People of Ul'dah! I, Nanamo, seventeenth in the line of Ul, address you.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Much has been made of the wealth of Ul'dah.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Yet those who measure that wealth in coins and carats are gravely deceived.
Nanamo Ul Namo: For the true wealth of Ul'dah lies in the health, happiness, and hopes of her people.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Beloved subjects, I bid you raise aloft the torch of Ul'dah, that her Flames might serve as a beacon for all Eorzea to see!
Raubahn: For Victory and Fortune, stride fearless into the inferno, for we are by fire reborn!


Alphinaud: Fancy meeting you again.
Alphinaud: The Ul'dahn have a long history of conflict with the Amalj'aa, the beast tribe that worships the primal Ifrit.
Alphinaud: Judging by your look of distaste, I take it you have encountered them.
Alphinaud: The Ul'dahn do not shy from confrontation. If aught threatens their precious prosperity, they will seek to crush it.
Alphinaud: So have they dealt with Ifrit thus far, smothering his flames each time he is stoked to life.
Alphinaud: Yet he is but one of several problems. Though they have been quiet these past five years, the Garleans have not gone away.
Alphinaud: Meanwhile, refugees continue to arrive in droves, and Ul'dah has no clear policy on how to deal with them.
Alphinaud: After all, not even the sultanate's coffers are bottomless. And even assuming they had the coin, resources will ever be finite.
Alphinaud: Which brings me back to the subject of Ifrit. It has been observed that the Amalj'aa are summoning him with ever increasing frequency.
Alphinaud: Every time they do so, the Ul'dahn send their forces to smite the primal, and though they invariably succeed, each victory is bought with blood. It is a war of attrition which they cannot sustain.
Alphinaud: Small wonder, then, that the Immortal Flames are eager to recruit more members.
Alphinaud: At such a desperate hour, an adventurer of your experience would be a most welcome addition to their ranks.


[Limsa Lominsa Remembrance Ceremony]
Zanthael: Here to attend the remembrance service? Be quick─the Admiral is due to give her address at any moment.
Merlwyb: Brothers and sisters of the sea, hearken unto me! Look upon this, our mighty crimson standard, and tell me your hearts do not swell with pride!
Merlwyb: Seven hundred summers have come and gone since our forefathers first ran aground in this fertile bay.
Merlwyb: In that time, guided by the Mother of Oceans, Limsa Lominsa has grown from humble fishing village to uncontested ruler of the five seas and beyond!
Alphinaud: Did you look, as the Admiral bid you? It is a rather stirring standard, I must say.
Alphinaud: The crimson field is meant to signify the blood of fallen crewmates, while the black longship represents a pirate vessel.
Merlwyb: When the Garlean Empire marched upon Eorzea, we assembled beneath the Maelstrom's standard, and our Grand Company was reborn.
Merlwyb: All answered the call, from the Knights of the Barracuda to Hillier's Bloody Executioners, and together we met our would-be conquerors upon the field of Carteneau.
Merlwyb: That day, the world bore witness to the united strength of Limsa Lominsa!
Merlwyb: I swear to you─no army ever fought harder, or with more courage. Yet many of ours did not survive.
Merlwyb: Join me now in remembering those who fought in the name of freedom, and fell. May their souls be returned to the sea.
Alphinaud: Freedom... Yes, they have always been rather fond of their freedom.
Alphinaud: Much as the beast tribes have. Small wonder─beneath the surface, one would struggle to tell them apart.
Merlwyb: It has been five long years since the Calamity struck. Five long years of tireless rebuilding.
Merlwyb: Yet still the wounds of the Calamity fester and weep.
Merlwyb: But when I stand atop the Mizzenmast, and gaze out upon our battered and broken vessel, I see an undying spirit. Did we not build all this from the wreck of the Galadion all those centuries ago? Shall we not do so again!?
Merlwyb: Yet there are those who would see this ship of ours sink beneath the waves of the restless Rhotano.
Merlwyb: The Sahagin creep ashore seeking blood for their accursed god.
Merlwyb: While the mines of O'Ghomoro spew forth kobolds who push ever south, despoiling our lands as they go.
Merlwyb: These savage beast tribes will be the first waves to crash against our creaking hull.
Merlwyb: And behind them swells the grim tide of the Garlean Empire.
Merlwyb: Even now, the curses fly their flags within our borders. Doubt not but that they will be upon us ere long.
Merlwyb: We are well nigh surrounded. Yet there are those among us who would rather turn their swords against their crewmates than our cannons against our foes.
Merlwyb: How can we hope to repel our many enemies when mutiny breeds below deck?
Merlwyb: There is but one course left to us!
Merlwyb: One bearing that will bring us victory over the beast hordes and the Empire both, and see this ship safe to port.
Merlwyb: We must mend the rift the Calamity has reopened 'twixt pirate and Maelstrom, and stand fast with our adventurer brothers against the coming tempest!


Merlwyb: Mark ye well: a crew without unity is no crew at all─'tis but a mass of drowned men.
Merlwyb: To me, then, brothers and sisters of the sea! Gather beneath the undying crimson standard and pledge me your strength, your skill, your wisdom!
Merlwyb: And with the guidance of the Navigator, this great vessel of ours shall ride the waves till sea swallows all!


Alphinaud: Fancy meeting you again.
Alphinaud: As the Admiral mentioned in her address, Limsa Lominsa is plagued by two beast tribes.
Alphinaud: The first are the fish-like Sahagin, worshipers of the primal Leviathan.
Alphinaud: The second are the kobolds, who dwell beneath the earth, and take the primal Titan for their god.
Alphinaud: As if the beast tribes' presence weren't troublesome enough, the Garleans have also chosen to erect a fortress right in the Lominsans' backyard.
Alphinaud: And that is to say naught of internal strife. As a nation of pirates, there is no end to the blood feuds between the various factions. And while they fight amongst themselves, the Garleans whet their blades and watch.
Alphinaud: If the Lominsans are to have any hope of withstanding the Empire, they must first resolve their own affairs. Differences must be set aside, and the primal threat dealt with once and for all.
Alphinaud: To this end, I expect that they will soon take decisive action against the beast tribes. Mark my words, the Maelstrom standard will be drenched a deeper shade of crimson ere long.
Alphinaud: That a capable adventurer like you would be a valuable addition to their crew is beyond question.


[Incoming linkshell contact]
Minfilia: Coral, this is Minfilia. You are well, I hope? Would I be correct in thinking that the final remembrance service has now concluded?
Minfilia: A moment ago, you say? What a coincidence!
Minfilia: Jesting aside, I trust you remember our guests from the Grand Companies? Well, delighted though we are to have them here at the Waking Sands, it would not do to keep them in suspense any longer than necessary. In short: hurry back!


[Back to the Walking Sands]
Minfilia: Welcome back, Coral. Were the Grand Company leaders' words as illuminating as you had hoped?
Minfilia: Aye, each nation is beset with problems. I trust you see now why your services are in such demand. Would that there were more of you, Coral.
Minfilia: But you must be tired from your journey. Why don't you rest awhile, and take a moment to reflect on your decision? Once your mind is made up, pray give the Grand Company officers your answer.


[In the pub, Alphinaud and Alisaie is sitting on a table accompanied by two Rogaeldyn guard, standing behind Alisaie]
Alphinaud: The gods only know what “grand” company our adventurer friend will keep.
Alphinaud: Hmph. The wheels of change are in motion regardless.
Alisaie: Brother, are you certain this course is best?
Alphinaud: Whatever do you mean, dear sister?
Alisaie: The so-called “Remembrance” ceremonies were little more than standard-waving rallies.
Alisaie: ...As though the Calamity and Seventh Umbral Era warranted scarcely a mention!
Alphinaud: Well, of course they were “standard-waving rallies.”
Alphinaud: Since you are so observant, mayhap you noticed what mention was made of the Warriors of Light? None.
Alphinaud: I suppose they must have forgotten the heroes who spared Eorzea a fate worse than the Calamity?
Alphinaud: No, dear Alisaie, they haven't “forgotten” these details. They have elected to omit them.
Alphinaud: Deep are the wounds the Calamity inflicted upon Eorzea. So deep, in fact, that the realm still bleeds.
Alphinaud: Needless to say, the beast tribes and their primals do little to alleviate the pain.
Alphinaud: So the task of salving Eorzea's wounds falls to the Scions of the Seventh Dawn─with a little help from our friends the Grand Companies.
Alphinaud: Remembrance will yield no remedy. If our world is to heal, we must put the horrors of the Calamity behind us.
Alisaie: Our grandfather would never entrust the fate of the realm to despots who rewrite history to their convenience!
Alisaie: There must be another way to cure what ails this world─and I mean to find it!
Alphinaud: You are most welcome to try. Our paths may differ, but our destination is the same. In time, I daresay we will see eye-to-eye.
Alisaie: I should hope so.
Guards: My lady, we are to escort you!


[Alisaie leave, along with the guards.]
Alphinaud: Hope does not come into it. We share the burden of this fate, dear sister, and will prevail together or not at all.
Alphinaud: The salve will serve not only to close up our present wounds...
Alphinaud: ...but prevent old ones from opening anew.
LV. 20 The Company You Keep (Twin Adder) [lore] [c]
[Choices and Cancelling]
Serpent Officer: Ah, I take it the Elder Seedseer's words have touched your heart. Have you resolved to entwine your destiny with that of the Twin Adder?
Serpent Officer: Ah...forgive me. In my eagerness to embrace you as a brother, I mistook your intention.
Flame Officer: Welcome back, adventurer! I take it General Raubahn's words kindled a fire within you?
Flame Officer: What? You cannot seriously be considering joining another Grand Company! Why, they are not nearly as grand as ours!
Storm Officer: How was the Admiral's speech? Ah, but you need not explain─that you stand before me now is answer enough. You have resolved to join the Maelstrom, have you not?
Storm Officer: ...Well, I daresay you have your reasons. But mark me: in stormy seas, the strong of arm and stout of heart must pull together or the vessel will founder. And when a ship goes down, the passengers always share the fate of the crew. Remember that.


Serpent Officer: Ah, I take it the Elder Seedseer's words have touched your heart. Have you resolved to entwine your destiny with that of the Twin Adder?
Serpent Officer: You have chosen wisely, my friend! The Elder Seedseer will be overjoyed!
Serpent Officer: Without further ado, let us speak of practical matters. In order to complete the enrollment procedure, you must report to the Adders' Nest.
Serpent Officer: I daresay you know it well from your wanderings in New Gridania. Give your name to the personnel officer there, and he will guide you through the formalities.
Serpent Officer: I have no doubt but that your deeds will bring great honor to our order. When next we meet in Gridania, I shall be proud to call you brother!


[NPC Interaction]
Serpent Officer: I shall send word to the Adders' Nest so that our people know to expect you. Give your name to the personnel officer, and he will guide you through the formalities.
Flame Officer: What's this!? You mean to take up with the Adders!? B-But...did the awe-inspiring figure of General Raubahn not stir you? He can seem a trifle intimidating...but I'm sure you'd warm to him, given time.
Storm Officer: If your mind is made up, then there is no help for it. Yet know that like the tide, men's hearts are apt to change. If and when yours does, you may be certain of a warm welcome from us.


Serpent Personnel Officer: You are come to the Adders' Nest, headquarters of the Order of the Twin Adder. Ever do we welcome they who would toil in the elementals' name for the good of our forest nation.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Ah, the great adventurer himself! Yes, our recruitment officer sent word that you were on your way. It is a pleasure and an honor both to welcome you to our ranks, friend.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Now, let me gather together the relevant documentation...
Serpent Private: Sir!
Serpent Personnel Officer: What is it? Report.
Serpent Private: An urgent message from Amarissaix's Spire, sir! A Highwind Skyways airship has taken fire from imperial forces in the skies over the East Shroud!
Serpent Private: The vessel's engines were crippled, sir, and it was forced to make an emergency landing southeast of Nine Ivies.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Nine Ivies? Gods, this could not have come at a worse time. All but a handful of our forces are presently afield, dealing with the Ixal.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Coral─I know full well you have yet to be formally inducted into our ranks, but we have urgent need of your aid.
Serpent Personnel Officer: In all likelihood, the airship was bearing civilians, and if the reports are accurate, it will have come down dangerously close to Garlean-occupied territory.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Please make all haste to the area southeast of Nine Ivies, locate the airship, and ascertain the status of the passengers.


[The airship is surrounded by Garlean forces, a crewman hiding behind the bushes watching their movement]
Airship Crewman: An adventurer!? What're you doing out here? No, wait─let's find some cover first...
Airship Crewman: The Adders' Nest sent you? How do I know you're not an imperial spy? You don't even have a uniform!
Serpent Lieutenant: Peace, friend─we mean you no harm. You are an engineer of Garlond Ironworks, are you not? We were alerted to your plight, and have come to rescue you.
Serpent Lieutenant: And you are Coral Ferrinas, I presume. I was told to expect an “honorary” Serpent. My thanks for your aid, friend.


Imperial Soldier: I've never seen a craft of this design... It must be Garlond's work. Is there no end to the man's treachery?
Imperial Soldier: The secrets of magitek belong in imperial hands. They are not to be squandered on Eorzean savages!
Imperial Soldier: We are taking this craft back to the fortress! Dismantle it if you must! And bring the engineer! Someone must pay for Garlond's crimes.


Serpent Lieutenant: Imperial scouts from Castrum Oriens. They mean to requisition the ship.
Airship Crewman: Wedge! You have to help him! That fool of a Lalafell was hiding inside the Tiny Bronco!
Serpent Lieutenant: The Tiny Bronco? But isn't that the Ironworks' latest creation!?
Airship Crewman: It's the first airship we've built since the Calamity─the first since Master Garlond...well, since he went missing.
Airship Crewman: After years of work, she was finally ready for her first test flight. And she was soaring, she really was─till those bastards blasted her out of the sky!
Serpent Lieutenant: Attend me, all: the Ironworks' latest creation must not fall into Garlean hands. We shall strike them, swift and sure, and rescue Engineer Wedge.
Serpent Lieutenant: Coral, I trust we can rely on your support.
Serpent Lieutenant: May the Matron watch over us! With me!
Imperial Soldier: An ambush! To arms!


[Battle]


[After Battle]
Wedge: Biggs!
Biggs: Wedge! You shouldn't have stayed with the ship!
Wedge: Th-That was a close one!
Biggs: Too damn close. So...how's she look, anyway?
Wedge: The auxiliary propeller is a dead loss, but I think we can wring enough thrust from the main propeller to get us airborne.
Biggs: A few minor modifications and we should be able to fly the Tiny Bronco home.
Serpent Lieutenant: While you do your work, we shall keep watch over the perimeter. The enemy may yet be lurking nearby. 
Serpent Lieutenant: As for you, Coral, you have more than done your part today. I bid you return to the Adders' Nest and complete your enlistment.
Serpent Lieutenant: I pray there will be no further interruptions. When next we meet, let it be as fellow Serpents of the Order!
Biggs: I, um...just wanted to say sorry...you know, for calling you an imperial spy and all that... Got that one wrong, didn't I!? Ha ha! Seriously, though─if it hadn't been for you and the Twin Adder lads there, we'd be chained up in a dungeon by now. I'm in your debt, friend─we both are.
Biggs: Wedge!
Wedge: Thank you! We're very grateful!


Serpent Personnel Officer: Coral! It does my spirit well to see you returned!
Serpent Personnel Officer: Word arrived but moments ago from the team at Nine Ivies. Lest you worry, the two engineers are safely on their way.
Serpent Personnel Officer: The lieutenant informs me that you were instrumental in the mission's success. Had you not found Engineer Biggs when you did, and helped us to rout the Garleans, things might have been very different.
Serpent Personnel Officer: And all this before you were even inducted into the Order! You are well on your way to carving out a fine career for yourself beneath the Twin Adder standard.
Serpent Personnel Officer: But without further ado, let us see to your induction. Twelve willing, there won't be any further interruptions.
Lv. 20        Wood’s WIll Be Done
Serpent Personnel Officer: Protocol requires that I apprise you of who we are and what we do, after which I will invite you to swear an oath of your own free will. Ahem!
Serpent Personnel Officer: The Order of the Twin Adder is the Grand Company of Gridania.
Serpent Personnel Officer: It brings together the martial, economic, and technological resources of our nation, that we might stand strong in times of direst adversity, when our very survival hangs in the balance.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Our order was formed in the days before the Calamity, in readiness to fight the Garlean Empire, and to combat the beast tribes and their primals. Needless to say, our struggle continues to this day.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Elder Seedseer Kan-E-Senna is the supreme commander of our forces. Under her wise leadership, we protect the people of Gridania and the sanctity of the Twelveswood.
Serpent Personnel Officer: As the entwined serpents that grace our standard, let forestborn strive as one with friends from afar to ensure that peace shall ever reign in Gridania.
Serpent Personnel Officer: In so doing, we honor the will of the elementals, and theirs is the will of the wood.
Serpent Personnel Officer: Now then, Coral Ferrinas, I ask that you give unto us your oath of allegiance, in whatever fashion you see fit.


[Wood's will be done!]
Serpent Personnel Officer: So you know the words of our Grand Company. That is well. Bound by this common belief, let us strive to preserve all that is good in this great nation.


[My life for the Elder Seedseer!]
Serpent Personnel Officer: The Elder Seedseer is a kind and gentle soul who holds the welfare of her people above all else. Your faith in her is well placed.
[I shall strike down our enemies and drink of their blood!]
Serpent Personnel Officer: Uh...quite. Your fervor is duly noted. May it lend you strength as you strive to preserve all that is good in this great nation.
Serpent Personnel Officer: By the power vested in me, I assign you the rank of serpent private third class.
Serpent Personnel Officer: You are now a man of the Order of the Twin Adder. Go forth, Private Ferrinas, and do that which brings peace to the Twelveswood and honor to our name.


Minfilia: Can you hear me, Coral? This is Minfilia.
Minfilia: An officer of the Order of the Twin Adder contacted me with news of your enlistment. My congratulations, Private Ferrinas.
Minfilia: I have no doubt that you are eager to make the acquaintance of your new comrades, but I would ask that you pay a visit to your old ones first. Remember: though you are now a Flame of Ul'dah, you are no less a Scion! Pray return to the Waking Sands at your earliest convenience. There are some friends here whom I would very much like you to meet. We shall be waiting!


[Walking Sands - NPC Interaction]
Thancred: The incident with the traitor still weighs heavily on everyone's minds─the Flame General's most of all.
Thancred: And although he cannot be expected to know what evil lurks in the hearts of every man under his command, the revelation is nevertheless a devastating blow to his authority.
Thancred: Even so, it warrants saying that you should not let this tragedy color your opinion of the man. In all my years working with the Flame General, I've never had reason to doubt his capacity to lead.
Papalymo: Following the Calamity, each nation's armed forces underwent large-scale restructuring centered upon its Grand Company.
Papalymo: In Gridania, the Order of the Twin Adder absorbed both the Wood Wailers and the Gods' Quiver, while the Lominsans enacted the complete merger of the Maelstrom and the Knights of the Barracuda.
Papalymo: Ul'dah is the odd nation out, having made no notable changes to its armed forces. As before, and in the spirit of the sultanate, each entity retains a certain degree of independence.
Yda: Let me see if I have this right─you're an adventurer...who's a Scion...and a Serpent? Golly, how do you keep track of everything?
Yda: It must be fun pairing up with lots of different people, though! Me? I'm always with Papalymo.
...Come to think of it, why am I always with Papalymo?
Brennan:  I heard tell one of me brothers came through not long ago. Looks like I just missed him, though.
Brennan: I ain't seen either one of 'em since the Calamity─didn't even know if they were still alive. But after runnin' into folk who swore they knew me time an' again, I reckoned they had to be out there somewhere.
Brennan: I've been travelin' an' peddlin' in the hopes I'd find me brothers ever since. If ye see a fella what looks like me, let him know that Brennan's lookin' for him, would you?
Liavinne: Have we met somewhere before? You must be quite the accomplished adventurer to be welcomed into these halls.
Liavinne: Me? No one's ever expected much of me. And so far, I've done a fine job of living down to their expectations.
Una Tayuun: I've been chattin' with Percevains, an' we both swear there was another member of our crew. We still ain't figured out a way t' prove who we was, but just ye wait and see. It won't be long before everybody sees us for the heroes we is!
Aulie: I'm not sure I grasp the purpose of these remembrance ceremonies. Whether you remember or rewrite the past, what does it matter? It isn't as though you can repeat it.
Aulie: Our present day enemies ought to serve as sufficient motivation, don't you think? The only lesson I believe we should take from the Calamity is that far greater threats can and will appear.
Arenvald: I hear you pledged yourself to a Grand Company. Me? I don't think I could do it. I'd never feel like one of them, no matter what the recruiters say.
Urianger: Fate shall be thy guide. When our purposes become one, once again shall our paths lead us here...
Urianger: Our city of learning is now naught but shadows. Ere the light of dawn breaketh, shall we follow whither the sand blows.
Y'shtola: We will continue to focus our efforts on investigating the primals. The Amalj'aa are not the only tribe that has succeeded in summoning its deity.




Scion of the Seventh Dawn: Welcome back, Coral! Lady Minfilia awaits you within.
Minfilia: Welcome back! It seems you wasted no time putting your skills to work!
Minfilia: How do I know? Why, the recruitment officer called to regale me with the tale of your heroics. The pride in his voice was palpable!
Minfilia: We Scions are truly fortunate to have you with us, Coral.
Minfilia: Now, when last we spoke, I said that I wanted you to meet some friends, did I not? Well, I neglected to mention that you have already met.
Minfilia: Tataru─please show them in.
Tataru: This way, sirs!
Biggs: Thanks again for getting us out of that mess. We owe you our lives.
Biggs: But I don't think we've properly introduced ourselves. I'm Biggs.
Wedge: A-And I'm...I'm...
Biggs: Gods, man, spit it out, will you!?
Wedge: W-Wedge, at your service!
Minfilia: I am pleased to say that Biggs and Wedge will be staying with us for a while.
Minfilia: Magitek-driven contraptions such as airships grow ever more vital to the city-states of Eorzea. As a neutral party, it was judged that we Scions should serve as the keepers of this technology.
Minfilia: Of course, for this we needed the knowledge of experts. And so we requested the assistance of Garlond Ironworks, who very kindly sent us two of their finest engineers.
Minfilia: Our happy family continues to grow. On behalf of the Scions, I bid you welcome to the Waking Sands!
Minfilia: Like every soul here, I love Eorzea.
Minfilia: And I count myself blessed to have been given this chance to stand with you all and fight for the future of the realm.
Minfilia: Never have I known such fulfillment─such happiness.


Lv. 20        Sylph-management
Minfilia: Now, having set aside the formalities...
Minfilia: ...We have a favor to ask of you.
Minfilia: Urianger. Have the documents arrived from the Students of Baldesion?
Urianger: Aye, my lady, they arrived but recently.
Minfilia: We have conducted a study at the behest of the Order of the Twin Adder.
Minfilia: Papalymo, Yda─a synopsis, if you would.
Papalymo: Our task was to survey the behavior of the sylphs, a beast tribe indigenous to the Twelveswood.
Yda: Oh, how to describe them... They look like...gysahl greens? Floating ones! That worship the primal Ramuh.
Papalymo: Ahem. Though technically a “beast tribe,” sylphs are blessed with a comparatively personable demeanor, conducive to peaceful communication.
Minfilia: Offering us an invaluable opportunity to learn what the beast tribes know of the primals.
Papalymo: While Ramuh's existence is well documented, the sylphs do not─or perhaps, can not─summon the primal any longer, insofar as can be ascertained. Until such time as we know...
Papalymo: ...It would be unwise to assume that the threat posed by the primal has passed.
Yda: Which leaves Gridania with the added worry of not knowing what they should be worrying about!
Papalymo: In that regard, they are hardly alone. What we can say with absolute certainty is that Gridania has its hands full fending off Garuda.
Papalymo: Who, I need hardly remind you, is among the most savage and terrible of all known primals.
Minfilia: In short, it is essential that we approach the sylphs in as diplomatic a manner as possible.
Minfilia: Words and actions can be misconstrued. The only sure way to communicate our intentions is the Echo.
Minfilia: Winning the sylphs' favor may well bring us a step closer to mitigating the threat of the primals. Will you help us?
Minfilia: I am grateful.
Thancred: Lovely! Well, much as I'd like to help, I'm afraid I would be of little use to anyone in Gridania. A veritable babe in the woods.
Thancred: Yda and Papalymo, however, should be able to see the forest for the trees. Is that not so, Minfilia?
Minfilia: Indeed. You are willing?
Yda: Leave it to me!
Papalymo: Us, Yda. Us!


[Walking Sands: NPC Interaction]
Minfilia: Your mission is to make contact with the sylphs, with the ultimate goal of finding a peaceful resolution to the threat posed by Ramuh.
Minfilia: Be fairly warned: the sylphs are a unique people to say the least, and you may find yourself bewildered by their customs at first. Yet know that Yda and Palaymo will be on hand to support all your endeavors.
Biggs: We haven't forgotten how you saved us, Coral. Don't worry─Wedge and I mean to repay the favor in kind.
Wedge: I like it here! Safe, hidden─a bit dank and dingy, perhaps, but I've known worse. Plus the receptionist was rather charming, don't you think?
Urianger: Ramuh, beloved primal of the sylphs. Rooted is he in the laws of eld, the stern arbiter of the forest.
Urianger: Legend hath it this thunderous entity appeareth in the guise of an elderly sage. Thus doth history oft speaketh of the “old man of the woods.”
Brennan: The merchants told me it was Brendt that delivered their goods. Maybe if I wait a while, he'll come back with another shipment...
A'aba Tia: They tell me ye were instrumental in Ifrit's defeat. Bravo, Coral, bravo!
A'aba Tia: Perhaps ye heard of my exploits? The Flames and I struck a decisive blow against the lizardmen by destroyin' and pillagin' their stores of crystals. Aye, they won't be summonin' their primal again anytime soon!
Arenvald: (A'aba neglects to mention that our allied forces suffered heavy casualties. The operation succeeded, but at great cost.)
Arenvald: (With an outcome like that, should we truly consider it a victory? A'aba says we should, but I'm not so sure.)
Y'shtola: With the addition of the two engineers you rescued, the Waking Sands has become lively indeed.
Y'shtola: Were you aware that entry to the Sands requires the fulfilment of certain conditions? One must either gain recognition from the Scions...or earn the approval of Tataru. Our Lalafellin clerk has quite a discerning eye for character.
Haribehrt: The name's Haribehrt. I've taken up residence here...for reasons I'd prefer not to delve into.
Haribehrt: I may not be of much use on the battlefield, but I know a thing or two about dealing with people. If you find yourself in a bind, you'd do well to avail yourself of my services.
Una Tayuun: Guess what, Coral? We found our third man! 'Twas bleedin' Satzfloh. Bugger me, how could I ever forget about Satzfloh?
Una Tayuun: Aye, the three of us was always together....I think.
Liavinne: Once upon a time, I aspired to make my name as an adventurer. It all came crashing down that fateful day when I lost the man who led my party─the man who had won my heart.
Liavinne: If I could not protect my love, how could I hope to protect my realm? I sunk to the depths of despair.
Liavinne: Pathetic, is it not? Others may have come to join some great cause, while I am here only because I have nowhere else to go.


[Adders’ Nest]
Vorsaile Heuloix: We know far too little of the sylphs to lay any worthwhile plans. We must call upon the Scions once more if we are to─
Vorsaile Heuloix: Ah, beg pardons. 'Tis a terrible habit of mine to think aloud. But tell me, what brings you to the Adders' Nest?


Lv. 20        We Come in Peace
Vorsaile Heuloix: Well! If it isn't Private Ferrinas, reporting for duty. That's the zeal I like to see from an enterprising young Serpent.
Yda: Morning, Commander! While we'd like nothing more than to deliver you a fresh recruit, other business brings us here today.
Vorsaile Heuloix: Yda and Papalymo, always a pleasure to see the two of you. My men tell me you quest in the name of the Scions of late.
Papalymo: Quite so, Commander. A little bird told us that the Twin Adder was in need of our adventuring prowess.
Vorsaile Heuloix: Aye, your little bird sings true. No doubt you've heard that we're investigating the sylphs─that curious beast tribe that calls the depths of the Twelveswood home.
Vorsaile Heuloix: The sylphs are, for the most part, a peaceable bunch─much to the delight of the Elder Seedseer, who has no desire to see her people embroiled in yet another fruitless war.
Vorsaile Heuloix: The Twin Adder is of the same mind, and 'tis precisely for this reason that the sylphs' relation to the primal Ramuh has raised a flag of warning amongst our ranks.
Vorsaile Heuloix: Friendly as they may appear, beastmen will be beastmen.
Vorsaile Heuloix: Should there be even a sliver of a chance that the summoning of the primal might disturb the balance between Gridania and the sylphic tribes, it is a possibility we cannot ignore.
Papalymo: Better to be safe than sorry, indeed.
Vorsaile Heuloix: Do we strike at Ramuh, or leave the sylphs to their own ways? That is the question, yet I find myself lacking ample knowledge to arrive at an answer.
Vorsaile Heuloix: Opinions abound within Gridania, but to listen only to one's own is among the greatest mistakes a commander can make.
Vorsaile Heuloix: I would hear from the other side─the sylphs themselves─and seek an impartial party to serve as my liaison. That is where you Scions come in.
Vorsaile Heuloix: The sylphs of Little Solace remain untempered, and have held many a productive dialogue with our people. I would hear their candid thoughts on their tempered brethren.
Vorsaile Heuloix: That said, I urge you to exercise due caution. Sylphic tradition and etiquette bear little resemblance to our own. It would not do to have any cross-cultural faux pas get in the way of a productive parley.
Vorsaile Heuloix: En route to Little Solace, you will come upon the Hawthorne Hut. Our officer stationed there can enlighten you as to how to win the sylphs' favor. May your expedition be a worthwhile one.
Papalymo: A friendly palaver with the sylphs? This should be a pleasant enough diversion.
Papalymo: The Hawthorne Hut, was it? Why, I believe the ferry departing from Westshore Pier should take us straight there.
Yda: A friendly palaver, indeed! I hope this will be as straightforward as you say, Papalymo.


Mitainie: Aye, the ferry docked at the base of this hill will carry you across the lake to the East Shroud.
Mitainie: Once you're ashore, head due east and you should find the Hawthorne Hut without much trouble.
Mitainie: The Hawthornes are most welcoming folk who have shown us no small measure of goodwill. Still, a bit of courtesy goes a long way: I would encourage you to stop by Fullflower Comb and introduce yourself to Rosa before you travel on.


Rosa Hawthorne: An adventurer! Thank the Twelve! You couldn't have come at a more opportune time. Please, you must help us!
Rosa Hawthorne: Why, it's our bees! The poor little dears are under attack by a murderous swarm of hornets!
Rosa Hawthorne: These beehives are our livelihood. You must save them!


Rosa Hawthorne: Thank you, friend! Finally, our bees can make their honey in peace. I knew you were Twelvesent the moment I laid eyes upon you.
Rosa Hawthorne: Hm? You travel to our hut, you say? And would speak with the serpent officer there?
Rosa Hawthorne: There is one who goes by Amelain. He is a sentry at Josselin's Spire, but makes regular excursions to our hut. He's quite enamored of our honey and the tales of my husband, Rolfe. Though I've found him to be tight-lipped around those he's unfamiliar with.
Rosa Hawthorne: ...Ooh! I know what we might try. Why don't you take a jar of fresh honey to him? I reckon you'll find him more than talkative then.


Amelain: Indeed, I am Amelain of the Twin Adder. Your face is unfamiliar to─hm? You have a present for me, you say?
Amelain: A jar of Rosa's honey, and freshly harvested to boot! You certainly know how to make a first impression, friend!
Amelain: Ah, so you are the adventurer of whom the commander spoke! Do forgive me for being curt; my stomach was rumbling something fierce. My word, this honey...like liquid gold... Mmmmmm...
Amelain: A-Ahem... Forgive me. You have come to discuss not honey, but sylphs. For all their whimsy, they are a wary lot. Particularly since the Empire has come to the Shroud...
Amelain: Earn their trust, however, and they're as friendly as any folk. They have their quirks, but so do we all, no?
Amelain: Would you know more, you'd do well to speak to Rosa's husband here, Rolfe. He's forgotten more about the sylphs than I'll ever know.


Lv. 20        Slyphic Studies
Rolfe Hawthorne: Come to learn a thing or two about the sylphs, have you? I'll tell you one thing, they're a peculiar folk. How peculiar, you ask? Well, just let me tell you!
Rolfe Hawthorne: They're... They're... Er... <sigh> Beg pardon, friend. My memory's just not what it used to be. I've seen much and more in my adventuring days, and it's all a clutter in my noggin now. Though, I've shared my stories with those around the hut before. You might have more luck with them.


Ysabel: The sylphs? Yes, Father's told me his stories plenty of times. What I've always found most captivating is how their concept of etiquette is almost completely alien to our own.
Ysabel: You'd do best not to underestimate them on account of their childlike looks, lest your face end up a mess of glyphs, squiggles, and chocobo scratches. Tee hee!
Blaisette: The quickest way to a Quiverwoman's heart might be through her stomach, but don't even think of trying to foist your foodstuffs on a sylph. They sustain themselves simply by bathing in the sun, or so Rolfe once told me.
Monne: The sylphs? Inveterate tricksters and troublemakers, that's what they are! One day they're drawing morbol faces on our masks, the next they're sending our young sentries falling to the bottom of a ravine!
Monne: Tell them to stop and they just laugh at you. Rolfe claims they harbor no ill will, but I daresay such pranks are no laughing matter.
Rolfe Hawthorne: Oh, of course, of course! Hearing your stories—well, my stories—has brought the memories flooding back to me. I feel...I feel like dancing!
Rolfe Hawthorne: Yes, nothing brings people together quite like a little toe-tapping. A sylph told me long ago that dancing is a time-honored greeting among their kind. You'd do well to remember this—it just may help win the favor of our forest friends.


Lv. 20        First Impressions [lore] [c]
Rolfe Hawthorne: Oh, still here, eh? Great! There's one more thing you should know about the sylphs. They don't take kindly to guests who show up empty-handed. To earn their trust, you'd do well to bring along a...a... Uh...
Rolfe Hawthorne: Drat! What was it, again? And Rosa and I were just speaking of the matter not days ago...
Rolfe Hawthorne: Forgive me, friend. Speak to Rosa at the Comb—her memory should prove more reliable than mine own.


Rosa Hawthorne: A peace offering for the sylphs? I'd give you another jar of my honey, but I fear that wouldn't get you past their front doorstep, dear. No, their tastes run more to the unusual.
Rosa Hawthorne: Are you, perchance, familiar with milkroot? That's what we call the root of that most fiendish plant, the ochu. When chewed, it exudes a cloudy liquid that's said to induce curious visions in the imbiber. You'd not catch me dead trying the stuff, but the sylphs seem to enjoy it to no end.
Rosa Hawthorne: I've not seen an ochu around the Comb in quite some time, but I did encounter a suspicious clump of grass the other day. Were you to stimulate it somehow—with some of this amber syrup, for example—you might be surprised at what comes out. Good luck.


Rolfe Hawthorne: Ah, you're back. Was my wife able to direct you to a suitable offering?
Rolfe Hawthorne: Milkroot! But of course! Those sylphs quaff that cloudy stuff as quick as I do a flagon of mead. The effect's just about the same, as well.
Rolfe Hawthorne: Anyroad, a gift of milkroot will have the sylphs calling you friend and brother the moment they lay eyes on it. Now let me wrap that up for you—I'm startin' to feel a bit woozy...


Lv. 21        First Contact [lore] [c]
Rolfe Hawthorne: I've taken the liberty of wrapping your milkroot well and good. This should keep it nice and fresh, not to mention spare you from that gods-awful stench.
Rolfe Hawthorne: The sylphs love the stuff, but me, I'd rather bury my nose in chocobo dung. I daresay the reek even rivals the breath of the morbol that put an end to my adventuring days!
Rolfe Hawthorne: But I can tell you that story another time. You've more important matters to attend to today, yes? The sylphs are an eccentric bunch, but I've shared their company enough to know they're kind at heart. They'll not shun one whose intentions are true.
Rolfe Hawthorne: May your parley be a fruitful one, friend. And do stop by on your return—there's a flagon of Fullflower mead with your name on it if you'd regale me with your adventuring tales.
Rolfe Hawthorne: Ah, and afore I forget, don't go traipsing off just yet. Amelain here would have a word with you. Travel in safety, friend, and do pass along my regards to the winged ones.


Amelain: It's good to see your knowledge of sylphic culture has matured. I see no reason to delay your mission any further.
Amelain: Upon your arrival at Little Solace, seek out a young sylph by the name of Komuxio. He has served as an intermediary between our peoples on many an occasion, and has the close ear of his tribe's elder.
Amelain: I see that Hawthorne has furnished you with some of that malodorous root the sylphs so adore. I have something of far greater import for you to deliver—a missive from the Elder Seedseer herself.
Amelain: To summarize the letter's contents in brief, it vouches for the integrity of our envoy—that would be you—and restates Gridania's desire to maintain a harmonious relationship with our longstanding friends of the forest.
Amelain: The war with the Ixal has taken a toll on our resources; we can ill afford to get mired in another conflict. I need not impress upon you any further the importance of this mission. May the Twelve see you return with good tidings.


Komuxio: Walking one would talk to this one? This one does not talk to rude ones. Walking one comes to the abode of these ones, walking one should pay proper respects.


[/dance]
Komuxio: This one would welcome walking one who moves like these ones. If walking one would talk to this one, this one will answer. This one is a busy one, so walking one should speak with quick tongue.
Komuxio: Walking one would bring gift to this one? Walking one is most kind.
Komuxio: Walking one brings milkroot! Milkroot fills this one with great joy!
Komuxio: This one gives thanks. Gives many, many thanks.
Komuxio: Walking one carries message for elder one? This one will deliver the message to elder one. Walking one should not worry.
Yda: Hello there! We're envoys from Gridania, and we're here to treat with your people!
Papalymo: Aye. We come to pay our respects to your elder, and to learn from him more of your Lord Ramuh.
Komuxio: Who are these ones? These walking ones come from Gridania?
Komuxio: Walking one became a dancing one and brought milkroot, but walking one trick this one! This one does not like tricks!
Komuxio: This one will speak no more. Elder one is busy. Walking ones should go home.
Yda: G-Go home, you say!? But the sylphs of Little Solace have always welcomed Gridanian envoys with open wings!
Papalymo: The letter carried by Coral here is an oath of peace penned by the Elder Seedseer herself! Still you would refuse us?
Komuxio: This one's reasons are no business of walking ones. Elder one has no words for Gridania. Walking ones waste every one's time.


Yda: Well, I never! Turned away at the gates! Whatever did we do to deserve such a rude welcome? Was Coral's jig insufficiently jiggy?
Papalymo: I'm as baffled as you, but something tells me recent events have our erstwhile fluttery friends feeling uncommonly wary. It would seem we've no choice but to ask around and see how we might earn their trust.
Lv. 21        Dance Dance Diplomacy [lore] [c]
Papalymo: By virtue of the crystal trade, the sylphs have maintained friendly terms with most every race in Eorzea. Alas, the appearance of Ramuh has been as a storm cloud over relations.
Papalymo: If peace is to be secured, we must reopen dialog with the sylphs before they have the chance to summon their god again.
Yda: Say, Coral. Are you in the mood for dancing?
Yda: That's right: dancing! You went through all that trouble to learn the sylphs' traditional greeting, but you've greeted hardly any of them.
Yda: While you're at it, why not dance for the Gridanians around here, as well? Why, if I were a sylph, I'd be beside myself with delight to see an adventurer sharing my culture with his own kind! Me? Of course I'd be happy to join—ow, ow! There go those bloody leg cramps of mine acting up again!
Yda: No need to overthink things! So long as your heart is in it, the sylphs will understand you!


Zacheus: Looking to befriend the sylphs, are you? I've spent my fair share of time in these parts. Go ahead, greet me as you would a sylph—I'll let you know if your moves are up to scratch.
Zacheus: That's some fine dancing, friend. Why, if you were half as tall and twice as green, I might have mistaken you for a sylph myself! Anyroad, the sylphs are a peaceful folk. Approach them with an open mind and heart, and they'll open up to you in turn.
Marinterre: In these times, Gridania can never have too many friends. As such, your enthusiasm in befriending the sylphs is admirable indeed. Very well, then, let's see how you intend to do it.
Marinterre: Magnificent! You'd make an excellent ambassador to Little Solace, friend. Mind you, not all sylphs are so welcoming of outsiders. The woodland sprites would gut you before you got your legs off the ground.
Imedia: So you're greeting all in Little Solace in traditional sylph fashion? A lovely gesture, I must agree! Would you be so kind as to show me? Sylph greetings never fail to bring a smile to my face.
Imedia: How charming! You'll fit right in here in Little Solace. Be forewarned, though: such pleasantries will get you nowhere with the sylphs who dwell in the homeland.
Pelixia: This one cannot follow walking one's words. This one begins to feel...sleepy... Does walking one not know proper greeting?
Pelixia: Walking one has sprightly steps! This one is amused! Tee hee! But this one is still...sleepy... Zzzzzzzzzzzz...
Ameexia: This one is weaving cloth. Walking one would know more? This one does not trust walking ones who do not show respect.
Ameexia: Walking one would be a friend to these ones? This one is overjoyed! But this one keeps the ways of weaving a secret. Even if walking one learned the secret, walking one could not weave in the same way.
Dellexia: What does walking one want with this one? Elder one warned this one not to get too friendly with walking ones...
Dellexia: Ah, walking one is a friend to these ones! Friendly like gracious elder one of forest city. Knows how to dance into these ones' hearts!
Knolexia: Walking one's belly is rumbling? This one is not making a meal! This one is boiling bark and flower seeds to dye thread. Color must be jolly, and so must greet-making.
Knolexia: Oooh, walking one knows jolly dance! Jolly dance fills this one with good cheer! Let these two be friends!
Nathaxio: Nasty ones live beyond here. Is walking one nasty one, or happy one?
Nathaxio: Ah, this walking one is a dancing one! This one is always happy to see dancing ones. Tee hee hee! 


Yda: Coral! Would you like to hear the good news, or the better news? The good news is that your lovely dancing has brought smiles and high spirits to all of Little Solace! The better news? Why, I've thoroughly recovered from those accursed leg cramps! Onward to our next adventure!


Lv. 21        Forest Friend [lore] [c]
Papalymo: Coral. As an adventurer, you're no stranger to helping distressed folk, I'd wager.
Papalymo: Tales of good deeds are quick to spread. The adventurer who comes to the aid of the local populace can go from stranger to hero o'ernight.
Papalymo: No doubt you see what I'm getting at. The sylphs who make their home in Little Solace do so having been driven from their woodland home. Surely, they have their fair share of troubles.
Papalymo: Seek out troubled sylphs, and see what might be done to ease their worries. A sound plan, would you not say?
Papalymo: That said, the sylphs are not known to share their worries with outsiders. You would be better off inquiring with Hearer Imedia; of the Gridanians who reside here, she is most like to be privy to the sylphs' troubles.


Imedia: Ah, you've returned. Praise be to the elementals─I cannot express how happy I am to see an adventurer with a truly gentle heart. The sylphs of Little Solace are sorely in need of aid. Pray hear me out.
Imedia: Being a temporary settlement, Little Solace wants for amenities, not least a stout set of defenses. Consequently, beasts from malms around are free to wander in and terrorize the hapless residents.
Imedia: If you could put down the ziz gorlins and gall gnats that roam these parts─five of each should suffice─the sylphs and I would be eternally grateful.
Imedia: Furthermore, perhaps you could gather five brownie brushes as well. They play an important role in sylphic culture─I do not claim to know the details─and what with such feral beasts prowling the forests, they are not easily come by.
Imedia: When you are done with the deed, seek out Komuxio. He is slow to warm to outsiders, but your good intentions will not be lost on him. My own experience speaks to this.


Komuxio: Dancing one is still here? Dancing one can dance all night—this one's trust is not so easily earned.
Komuxio: Hm? Dancing one brings brownie brushes for this one? This one can dye thread once more. This one is pleased.
Komuxio: Dancing one kills bitey, buzzy ones? This one hates, hates, hates bitey, buzzy ones! Dancing one is kind... Too kind.
Komuxio: Many walking ones come to these ones' abode, but few are friendly like dancing one. Perhaps this one was wrong not to trust dancing one, after all.


Lv. 21        Presence of the Enemy
Komuxio: This one asks dancing one for forgiveness. These ones have many troubles since walking ones last came to our abode. This one must be careful. Always careful.
Komuxio: But dancing one is not like other walking ones. This one can trust dancing one. This one would ask dancing one for help.
Komuxio: Strange walking ones with bodies of steel come to the home of these ones. This one thinks steel ones come from Empire.
Komuxio: Where Empire goes, many living ones become dead ones. Trees fall and bushes burn. These ones' home is in danger. Danger!
Komuxio: This one begs of dancing one to help this one know more. Dancing one is friends with these ones and walking ones, yes? Dancing one must speak to these ones here and walking ones in hut-house and find out more.
Komuxio: This one has bad feeling. This one fears steel ones are after something. But this one should speak no more. Go, dancing one. This one depends on kindness of dancing one.


Pelixia: Strange steel walking ones? Yes, this one has seen. Steel walking ones carry big boxes. Maybe walking ones hunt for shiny treasure? This one likes treasure!
Monne: Men clad in strange armor? Why, now that you mention it, I did see some suspicious types of late. They were gathering deep in the forest. I simply assumed they were adventurers...
Victor: Fearsome types clad head to toe in steel, you say? Imperial soldiers, no doubt. I couldn't tell you what they're plotting, but I'm sure it's nothing good.
Nathaxio: Shush! Shush, this one says! Steel walking ones are scary, like touched ones... This one hates scary! And scary ones have scary friends...


Komuxio: This one is happy to see dancing one return. What did dancing one learn?
Komuxio: This one sees. Steel walking ones come from Empire. Carry boxes, and go walking deep, deep through trees.
Komuxio: As this one thought! Steel walking ones are up to nasty, no-good things.
Komuxio: This one knows forest well. Steel walking ones try to hide, but this one will find them.
Komuxio: This one would borrow dancing one's map. This one makes mark—right here! This is where steel ones hide, this one knows. Dancing one will go looking for steel ones, yes?


Komuxio: Dancing one is back. This one breathes sigh of relief. This one was worried. Hm? Dancing one found something?
Komuxio: Dancing one found paper inside of box? This is a message from Empire?
Komuxio: This one can read walking ones' symbols. Message-paper has names of food and rocks. Food and rocks were inside boxes, this one knows.
Komuxio: But this one does not understand. Food and rocks mentioned all come from home of these ones. How do steel walking ones know to find them?
Komuxio: Is there sneaky one hiding behind this one's wings? Snooping one selling secrets to steel walking ones?
Komuxio: This one fears for this one's home. But dancing one has helped this one much today. Dancing one must promise to always be friend to these ones.


Lv. 22 Brotherly Love
Komuxio: Helpful one arrives at a good time! This one needs helpful one's help!
Komuxio: One of these ones named Claxio ventured outside Little Solace alone. Alone is unsafe! Helpful one must find Claxio!
Komuxio: Claxio struck west after leaving the settlement. Hurry before Claxio ends up in the belly of a beastly one!


Claxio: What? Walking one wants this one to return to Little Solace? Don't make this one laugh!
Claxio: This one is weary of living with those who are not these ones. This one wants to be alone.
Claxio: These ones rely on walking ones for everything. No better than those ones that summoned a primal one! Small wonder this one chose to leave!
Claxio: This one thought this a likely place to build a home. But then meddling one arrives─forces this one to go deeper into the forest. Meddling one is forbidden from following this one! Away with meddling one!


Komuxio: What? Claxio refused to return to these ones, and went deeper into the forest!?
Komuxio: B-But this one saw touched ones lurking in the forest! Helpful one must hurry─hurry and find Claxio!
Komuxio: Helpful one should search for pieces of thread on the forest floor. Those things will lead helpful one to Claxio. But hurry! Hurry, before touched ones take Claxio away!


Claxio: Meddling one is back!? This one told meddling one to be gone! Tell Komuxio that this one will never go back! Never!
Claxio: T-Touched ones? Touched ones should go away too! This one is good one! Every one should just leave this one alone!!!
Papalymo: Be on guard, Coral. These sylphs have been tempered―brought under the thrall of the primal Ramuh.
Papalymo: Akin to the Amalj'aa tempered by Ifrit, these sylphs exist only to serve their deity.
Yda: They'll not answer to words―only steel. I take no pleasure in this, but it must be done.


[Battle]
Sylvan Budnapper: Claxio... These ones are your friends...
Come with these ones... Serve primal one together...
Claxio: No! This one is good one! Will never go with bad ones!
Sylvan Budnapper: Meddling one not smart to anger this one...
This one has many friends in the forest...
Yda: Hurry up, Papalymo―I can't bear this stench any longer!
Papalymo: I'm doing the best I can! If we dispatch the sylphs, surely...
Papalymo: A morbol!? And things were going so well...
Claxio: N-No...not stinky one! Stinky one is scary!
Stinky one's stink makes this one's head go spinning!
Papalymo: There's something not right about this morbol.
Ignore it and focus your attacks on the sylphs!
Yda: Ick! Coral―Papalymo and I can handle this beast. You take care of the sylphs!






Claxio: Th-This one is...safe? This one was so scared...
Komuxio: Claxio! This one has been worried! So very worried! Is Claxio unharmed? Still in possession of wits?
Claxio: K-Komuxio? And meddling one as well... Why are these two here?
Komuxio: These two came to rescue Claxio! That Claxio is safe fills this one with joy!
Claxio: Komuxio...forgive this one. This one did not mean to run away from Little Solace. This one was just...afraid.
Claxio: These ones who live at Little Solace were changing─becoming friendly with other ones.
Claxio: This one feared that these ones were forgetting who these ones are...like touched ones did. But this one was wrong. This one can see that now.
Claxio: Meddling─er, helpful one. This one is grateful. This one will return to Little Solace to be with Komuxio and friendly ones.
Papalymo: Well, that should see to that. What say we return to Little Solace as well? I, for one, could do with a nice, hot bath.




Komuxio: This one thought Claxio was lost forever. Helpful one saved Claxio―now these ones can be family again.
Komuxio: This one has known many walking ones―even many kind walking ones―but helpful one is kindest and strongest of all. Helpful one is a hero to these ones.
Komuxio: Helpful one will bring these ones and walking ones closer together―this one knows. This one would take helpful one to see elder one.
Komuxio: But elder one is... Elder one is...




Lv. 22        Spirited Away
Komuxio: This one must ask kind one's forgiveness. This one made promise to take kind one to see elder one, yes? But this one cannot...
Komuxio: This one cannot because...elder one is not here. Elder one is not anywhere. Elder one went into forest yesterday, but has not come back...
Komuxio: This one is worried. Elder one often goes into forest, but never, never for this long. Kind one will help find elder one, yes?
Komuxio: Near where elder one disappeared is the home of a walking one named Buscarron. Buscarron may know what happened to elder one.
Komuxio: This one would talk to Buscarron...but walking ones do not always trust these ones. Would kind one talk to Buscarron for this one?
Komuxio: And kind one comes from Gridania, yes? In Gridania live many kind ones, yes?
Komuxio: This one begs of kind one. Please go to Gridania and ask fellow kind ones for help. And please hurry—these ones are not safe until elder one returns.
Vorsaile Heuloix: Well, if it isn't our intrepid ambassador. How fare your diplomatic efforts with the sylph tribes?
Vorsaile Heuloix: Their elder's gone missing, you say!? Why, if he were to end up in the hands of the tempered ones, we'd have a crisis on our hands.
Vorsaile Heuloix: You can assure the sylphs that my sharpest-eyed Serpents will be on the lookout night and day.
Vorsaile Heuloix: No stone must be left unturned. I would ask you to call upon Giah Molkoh at Bentbranch Meadows and deliver the message that the Wood Wailers are needed in the search effort.


Giah Molkoh: A message from Commander Heuloix, you say?
Giah Molkoh: The sylph elder has vanished? Worry not, friend—the Wood Wailers have eyes under every leaf, behind every branch. If the elder is anywhere in these forests, we shall find him.


[NPC Interraction]
Yda: Buscarron is a good friend of ours, and there's no place like his for the latest gossip in the South Shroud!
Papalymo: The sylphs are known to avoid the South Shroud. What could have compelled the sylph elder to come here?
Papalymo: But the question of motive must wait─finding him is our foremost priority. With things relatively calm over in Little Solace, we can focus our search effort on this area.


Buscarron: Well met, adventurer! We have the finest grog and grub this side of─ Eh? Not here to fill your belly, then?
Buscarron: Ahhh, a hunger for news, is it? Aye, there's been talk of a sylph lurking hereabouts, but I couldn't rightly say if it be the elder you seek.
Buscarron: Those woodland scamps all look alike. Short of painting one red and another one blue, most folk would struggle to tell two of 'em apart.
Buscarron: If you've the time, mayhap you could stay a while and see what the gods have in store. You never know, you might even stumble across this sylph elder yourself.






Lv. 22        Druthers House Rules


Buscarron: No word on the sylph elder yet, but I'm sure it's only a matter of time. In the meantime, how about doing a favor for old Buscarron in return?
Buscarron: Right, then, let's put you to work. There's a customer outside who's spoiling for a fight and I need you to cool him off for me.
Buscarron: No need to go cracking any skulls, though. Just grab the tub out back, fill it with cold water, and douse the drunkard. Tends to do the trick.
Buscarron: My patrons can swill grog all night and carouse loud enough to wake the dead if they wish, but as soon as it turns violent, I've got to put my boot down.


Drunken Duskwight: Grrr... If this were anywhere but the Druthers, I'd have that fool spittin' teeth before he formed a second word.
Mead-soaked Midlander: What are you starin' at!? You wanna keep them eyes in yer face?
Mead-soaked Midlander: Ugh! Nophica's teats, that's cold! What do you mean, “no fightin'”? This Duskwight scum was─
Mead-soaked Midlander: Yeah, yeah, I know the rules. That bastard gets to keep his skin...for now.
Drunken Duskwight: Thanks for steppin' in there, friend. Not that I couldn't handle myself against a bleatin' milksop like that bloke.
Drunken Duskwight: And I don't want to cause no trouble for Buscarron. You know, havin' to mop up blood and bits o' teeth and the like.
Buscarron: Nicely done, Coral. I'll not have my patrons picking fights with each other over a bit of petty prejudice.
Buscarron: In case you didn't see, the bloke who caught the brunt of that outburst is a Duskwight Elezen. They're a people who shun cities to live in the wilds, making them no better than brigands in the eyes of many.
Buscarron: To be fair, the Duskwight can be an unruly lot, but they ain't so bad once you get to know them. And it don't seem right to bar a whole race of people from the Druthers for the misdeeds of a few.
Buscarron: There should be at least one place where anyone willing to pay the coin and drink in peace is welcome, don't you think?




Lv. 23 Never Forget
Buscarron: I appreciate all the good you've done for our patrons. If you aren't disinclined, I have a favor of my own to ask you.
Buscarron: There's a Qiqirn friend of mine, you see─name of Teteroon. A good lad. It was right after the Calamity that I came across him fallen in the Shroud. He nearly died in all the havoc. So, I took him in and nursed him back to health best I could.
Buscarron: He worked here at my Druthers for a spell after that. Got to talking about striking out on his own, he did, and not long after cast his lot with a merchant bound for La Noscea.
Buscarron: Well, it just so happens I got to cleaning up around here and came across something of his—this scarlet earring. I know he was fond of the thing, but he must have just forgotten it when he left. So, I'd like to see that it gets to him.
Buscarron: Can't say for sure where he ended up, but might be a friend of mine can. A Roegadyn fellow named Baensyng. You can find him on Hawkers' Alley in Limsa Lominsa. He knows everything of the comings and goings of merchants there.


Baensyng: Ye found yer way to 'Awkers' Alley, friend.
...Hm? A Qiqirn what worked at the Druthers? Aye, ye speak of Teteroon.
Baensyng: Related to that Kyokyoroon bloke just o'er there by some blood or another. Two of 'em put in together an' were makin' good coin. But ol' Teteroon up and left Limsa not long ago. Couldn't say as to why or where.
Baensyng: Yer better off askin' Kyokyoroon himself. He can be tight of lip, though, I warn ye. Best to take a chicken egg with ye. Li'l bastard loves the bloody things.
Baensyng: Heh... Good to hear about ol' Busc, though. Sounds as though he ain't changed a bit. Just like him to send a 'venturer along. Too shy to come his own self. Gods, I miss drinkin' with that fool.


Kyokyoroon: Customer, be welcome! Not customer? Not come with custom? Kyokyoroon busy with business. Too busy for blather.
Kyokyoroon: Chicken egg! Kyokyoroon love chicken egg! Love chicken egg more than love customer!
Kyokyoroon: Looking for Teteroon? Teteroon no here no more. Teteroon leave Limsa. Teteroon go look for sparklies.
Kyokyoroon: Now working at trading post. Good trading post. Memeroon's Trading Post. Post in upper La Noscea. You go there. You find Teteroon.


Teteroon: Customer, be welcome! Not customer? Not come with custom? Bring something for Teteroon?
Teteroon: Teteroon forget this! Forget at Druthers. Teteroon swore would never forget earring...but never forget forgot. Teteroon thank! Teteroon thank!
Teteroon: Good Buscaroon doing good? Good Buscaroon good to Teteroon. Teteroon miss good Buscaroon... <sigh>




Lv. 23 Microbrewing
Teteroon: Good Buscaroon help Teteroon. Teteroon dead without good Buscaroon. Must give thankies. Many, many thankies. Teteroon make Qiqirn firewater for Buscaroon! Buscaroon love firewater!
Teteroon: You help Teteroon make firewater? Need thingies to make. Need many, many thingies.
Teteroon: Need good water. Good water from Fool Falls. And need coeurl whiskers. Need five good coeurl whiskers.


Teteroon: Teteroon make firewater for Buscaroon. You bring thingies Teteroon need?
Teteroon: You brought all thingies! Teteroon make firewater now. Make good firewater for good Buscaroon.
Teteroon: Teteroon start making firewater now. Good firewater take time. More time, more good. You come back later.


Lv. 23 Like Fine Wine
Teteroon: Teteroon make firewater! Good, good firewater! You take to Buscaroon. Good firewater for good Buscaroon.
Teteroon: Tell Buscaroon no drink now. Tell put away one year. One year make best flavor.
Teteroon: <sigh> Teteroon hopes Buscaroon happy. Teteroon gives Buscaroon thankies. Many, many thankies. You tell Buscaroon.
Teteroon: Teteroon make big shop someday. Biggest shop in Eorzea. Make many, many sparklies. All thanks to good Buscaroon.


Buscarron: Ah, you've returned. Thank you for seeing Teteroon's belongings to him.
...What's this? For me?
Buscarron: Qiqirn firewater! So he remembers my fondness for the drink, does he? Why that old... He... I... Aw, bloody hells! Who's cutting onions back there!?
Buscarron: He says to shelf it for a year, does he? Aye, that sounds about right. I hate to have to wait, but I reckon it'll be worth it. This stuff has an aroma and body unlike any other drink I know.
Buscarron: It's going to be a looong year. What say you come back then, friend? We'll see if we can't make it through this bottle together.


Lv. 23        Sylphish Concerns
Buscarron: There was word while you were away. Sylphs were seen in the wood, but near no lands of their own. No, this was a place near to here─a place we've never known a sylph to come. 
Buscarron: Something must have given them cause to venture this far. More than like, the missing sylph elder's among them. Here, I've marked the tract where they were sighted on your map. Go see if there's anything to be seen.


Buscarron: So, was there aught to be found in the wood? What did you come to─
...Garleans!? In this part of the Twelveswood!?
Buscarron: Hmmm... First sylphs and now Garleans, and all in the same place. It cannot be mere coincidence. Might the Garleans be following the sylphs? Tracking them or giving chase, mayhap?
Buscarron: But no, not this far into the forest. The Wailers' spires are everywhere. Imperials could never have stolen past them all. How in the bloody hells could they─ Unless...
Buscarron: Unless someone guided them through. Someone who knew where the spires stand, and when the Wailers watch. A Gridanian traitor.




Lv. 23                Nouveau Riche
Buscarron: I'm glad you've come, friend. There's something I want to talk to you about. You know I said I thought we might have a traitor in our midst─someone as was aiding the Garleans? Well, I'm thinking I may have identified our suspect.
Buscarron: There's a regular of mine who used to dine on thin soup, and sip his pint on account of not being able to afford another. But of late, he's taken to ordering my best wines and the finest cuts of meat I can lay my hands on.
Buscarron: Were he a merchant, I'd prob'ly think nothing of it, but this lad's a Wood Wailer.
Buscarron: ...And Wood Wailers don't earn that kind of coin. By chance, I was musing on where the money was coming from when you first told me about the Garleans in the forest, and I couldn't help putting two and two together.
Buscarron: Suffice it to say, if a Wailer's working for the Empire, none of us is safe.
Buscarron: The lad I'm talking about goes by the name of Laurentius. Last I heard, he was in the South Shroud. Find him, Coral, and if he is up to no good, put an end to it─and him, if it comes to that.


Laurentius: Can you not see I am on patrol? Be gone. If you have business with the Wailers, take it to the Barracks.
Laurentius: You again? I told you I am busy with my duties. Now piss off!
Laurentius: Not long now... Hmph. To think patrol routes and rations would fetch such a price...
Laurentius: No more than I deserve, though. 'Tis little wonder the Empire has risen to such heights. If only the Wailers paid men their worth...
Laurentius: Y-You! What did you─? How long have you─? Help. Help! Heeelp!
Laurentius: Please! Come quick, my friends! It is I, Laurentius! I am under attack!
Laurentius: How...? How did you...? You just... I-I know nothing! I was on patrol. He just appeared! I...I thought you were working for the Garleans!
Laurentius: Wh-Why are you following me!? Leave me be! I told you─that Garlean just appeared. I know nothing!


Laurentius: How long do you mean to keep this up? What is it you imagine I've done? Enough! Enough, I say!
Laurentius: It's... It's over, then. Aye, I sold maps and rations to the Empire. It was I. I meant no harm. I only wanted the coin.
Laurentius: The Wailers are good. Strong. I was proud to join their ranks. Am proud. But... They do not provide. They preach justice, honor, duty. But in the end, it is those with money who do as they will. Who live as they will.
Laurentius: ...So I sought an opportunity to change my fortunes, and took it. All I've done, I've done for money. Endangered myself, my home, everything and everyone I love...
Why, my actions have put your life in danger, too...
Laurentius: ...Though you do not yet realize how much. Heh heh heh! Bloody idiot─did you imagine that you had cornered me? It is not I who is cornered.
Laurentius: Garleans! I've brought the Miqo'te bastard!
Laurentius: Permit me a question, if you will. Are all adventurers so deluded as to believe they can challenge the power of Garlemald?
Laurentius: You would need a veritable mountain of gil to fund such an endeavor! Such is the cost of fighting great power. Or of making it. Or of remaking it, as we will Gridania.
Redbelly Gutter: So that's the way of it. Swapped your hard bunk at the Barracks for a feather bed in Garlemald, did ye? <spit>
Redbelly Gutter: You there, Miqo'te. You stand here at ol' Busc's wish, no? Then you don't stand alone.




[Battle]
Legless Laurentius: You mean to stand against the might of the Empire with this Redbelly rabble at your side? Hah!
Redbelly Gutter: Your eyes betray your words, coward. You know full well the Wailers fear the Wasps' sting.
3rd Cohort Decurion: After these trees drink your blood, I will see to it they are cut down and burned.
Legless Laurentius: Show them what happens to those who oppose the Empire!
Coeurlclaw Hunter: If this is a fight Buscarron wants won, then the Coeurlclaws will fight it.
Legless Laurentius: How? Why!? You scum have no allegiances!
3rd Cohort Decurion: So, this is to be my end...
Legless Laurentius: How...? How has it come to this?






Laurentius: Impossible... How did you best the Empire's finest? And with bandits and poachers at your side!? They are your sworn enemies! Why do they fight with you and not against you!?
Laurentius: ...Ah, but I know the answer only too well. Buscarron. This is his doing. His words are wont to inspire men to act. Better men than I... Gods, what have I become? What have I done?
Laurentius: I... I am sorry. No more will I pursue this folly. No more lies. No more bribes. I will go to the Order of the Twin Adder and confess my crimes.
Laurentius: There is something I would like you to tell Buscarron. Tell him Laurentius the fool says “thank you.” I feel as though a veil has been lifted from before my eyes.


Buscarron: Aye, Laurentius confessed to his crimes. I just had word from the Twin Adder. Seems he marched straight into the Nest and gave himself up.
Buscarron: The lad's had quite a life, you know... His mother was killed by a brigand when he was only small. As a young man, he joined the Wailers, hoping to spare his fellow Gridanians the misery he'd known growing up.
Buscarron: Trouble is, protecting Gridania's too big a job for one man, and he came to believe that he couldn't make a difference─that it was hopeless.
Buscarron: There are few things more dangerous than desperation, and a man lost in the dark is easily drawn to the glimmer of coin. I reckon he thought that if he couldn't change the lot of his fellow man, he might as well change his own. Thing is, he was making a difference─just not on his own. Somehow, he'd failed to grasp one simple truth─that those things we cannot do alone, we must do together.
Buscarron: ...Eh? He asked you to thank me, did he? Then there's good in him yet. I just hope them at the Adders' Nest are able see it... What he's done ain't easy to forgive, but I'd like to think he'd be afforded a chance to make amends.
Buscarron: But let us leave fates to the Twelve. I have other news for you, Coral. The sylph elder has been found!




Lv. 24 Into the Beast’s Maw
Buscarron: It's taken us a fair old while, but we've finally got our hands on some reliable information concerning the whereabouts of your missing green friend.
Papalymo: Ahem! His name is Frixio, and he is the eldest amongst the sylphs of Little Solace. Long has he represented his kind in dialogue with the Gridanians.
Yda: Yes, he's like a bridge between us and them─a small, leafy, green bridge that we can't find at the moment. And bridges are no use if you don't know where they are. That's why it's so important that we find him!
Buscarron: There's an abandoned dungeon called the Thousand Maws of Toto-Rak here in the South Shroud.
Buscarron: 'Twas by the entrance to the place that Frixio was seen─and not long ago, neither. If you hurry, I reckon you'll find him.
Noraxia: Walking ones, please help this one! This one needs help! Needs help to help elder one! Poor Frixio! Poor, poor Frixiooo!!!
Buscarron: Whoa, whoa, whoa! Hooold your chocobos. Take a deep breath and tell us what's wrong, nice and slow.
Noraxia: Elder one went into Toto-Rak, but has not returned! This one is worried, so very worried!
Buscarron: And you're right to be... The place fair crawls with nasties waiting to make a meal of anyone daft enough to wander in.
Buscarron: What in the seven hells was he thinking, entering that bloody deathtrap?
Noraxia: Elder one had no choice! Imperial ones were chasing elder one! Please! Walking ones must help elder one─help elder one now!
Papalymo: Argh! The fates conspire against us... Forgive my pragmatism, but Frixio is our best hope of reaching an accord with the sylphs. Were we to lose him, all our efforts thus far will have been for naught.
Papalymo: I will tend to her wounds. Yda, make haste to the Adders' Nest and request assistance.
Yda: Understood!
Papalymo: Coral─go to the Thousand Maws of Toto-Rak and see that Frixio comes to no harm. Peace between man and sylph rests upon your success.


Bloisirant: By order of the Elder Seedseer, the dungeon known as the Thousand Maws of Toto-Rak has been placed under the control of─
Bloisirant: ...What? The sylph elder is inside? And you are sure of this? How in the seven hells did he manage to sneak by? Gods strike me down for a purblind fool!
Bloisirant: You must find the sylph elder before he falls prey to the fiends within. Entrance to Toto-Rak is ordinarily restricted, but these are exceptional circumstances. Pray assemble a rescue party, and enter as soon as you are ready.


[Dungeon]
: First Spear Rydel
Toto-Rak Expedition Notes  (Day 1)
Strange lights sighted from just inside dungeon entrance. Creatures of the forest? Closer inspection reveals them to be man-made machines. Ashcrown Consortium technologist accompanying party believes them to be of Garlean design. Labels them “magitek photocells.” Collect for further study.


: First Spear Rydel
Toto-Rak Expedition Notes  (Day 2)
Dramatic increase in light emitted by photocells observed upon collecting fourth. Dispatched two lancers to Gridania with orders to deliver the photocells to Stillglade Fane. Soon after their departure, received linkpearl transmission from pair reporting marked reduction in photocell glow as distance from Maws increased. Recalled lancers.


: First Spear Rydel
Toto-Rak Expedition Notes  (Day 3)
Lancer downed attempting to breach what Ashcrown technologist calls a “magitek field.” Technologist advises that there should be a device in the vicinity powering the barrier. No choice but to look for it. Divided party into four teams to expedite search. Whisperings of discontent? No. Just my imagination.


: First Spear Rydel
Toto-Rak Expedition Notes  (Day 4)
Device located, but one team yet to return. Barrier terminal unresponsive until technologist suggests applying set of four photocells. How does he know these things? Watch him. Lancer suggests locating missing team. Decide to press on.
: First Spear Rydel


[Adventurer hear the Echo]]
Darkness...
???: Hahahaha...
???: The mighty slayer of Ifrit comes now to me.
???: ...With a countenance that bespeaks understanding.
???: An intriguing power, the Echo. I must needs choose my words with care.
???: Mayhap I might if I deign to speak in my guest's crude tongue. We meet at last.
Lahabrea: I am Lahabrea of the Ascians, servant to the one true god.
Lahabrea: Yours is a most fantastical tale. Truly absorbing.
Lahabrea: It is a tale to tell Eorzea's children before bedtime. And it will soon be dark, Bringer of Light.
...The Dark Minions...
Lahabrea: All that stands between this world and darkness is an irksome anomaly in the aether—the Echo.
Lahabrea: Yes...yours is a most fascinating tale.
Lahabrea: Alas, like all good tales, it must needs come to an end. But fear not…


[Lahabrea conjure a dark power and aimed for a neaby creature]
Hear… Feel… The presence…of evil...
Lahabrea: For the end of your tale is but the beginning of another... The tale of the Crystal's demise!


[The creature landed with a great change in size and sinister looking, and Lahabrea disappeared]


[A coccon fall from the top and revealed a fade colored Sylph]
Frixio: <gasp> Finally, fresh air!
Frixio: <sniff> <sniff> Mayhap not so fresh...but better than before.
Frixio: Ah, sinister one is gone! This one can leave this awful place!
Frixio: Hm? Did walking one vanquish the many-legged one? This one is grateful to walking one!
Frixio: This one is called Frixio, eldest of these ones of Little Solace.


[Flashback]
Imperial Herald: Alpha squad reporting, sir! Nothing of note at Larkscall, sir!
Imperial Centurion: Understood. Return to area twelve.
Damn it all...where is that accursed eikon hiding?
Nero Tol Scaeva: No sign of our wizened friend?
Imperial Centurion: I'm afraid not, my lord. Shall I order that the search perimeter be expanded?
Nero Tol Scaeva: Absolutely not. We risk alerting the Gridanians to our presence. His Excellency bid us avoid unnecessary confrontation.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Loath though I am to admit it, I have found no evidence to suggest that Ramuh will be gracing the mortal realm in the near future.
Nero Tol Scaeva: I ask you...what good is a god who does not grant one's wishes? Were I a sylph, I should strongly consider finding myself another idol.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Which reminds me─what of the sylphs we captured? A handful of them seemed to be in reasonably good health when last I looked.
Imperial Centurion: Ah. A-Apologies, my lord. I fear we may have been...overzealous in our efforts to compel them to summon their eikon.
Nero Tol Scaeva: <sigh> ...Really, Centurion─were you not aware that vegetables bruise easily? It is well that I did not entrust you with the important task of making my dinner.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Well, mayhap it was a kindness. Better dead in truth than dead to one's own god, I suppose...if you believe in such things.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Dawn is upon us. Make ready to withdraw.


[The troops leave]
Nero Tol Scaeva: Hmph, useless...
Nero Tol Scaeva: We are so close to completion, I can fair taste it, but at this rate...
Nero Tol Scaeva: No, I must be patient. Our efforts will bear fruit in due time.
Nero Tol Scaeva: ...What was it you always said? Ah, yes: “Though it mean bringing down the very heavens, who shall challenge the limits of possibility if not we?” In that alone were you right...Garlond.
Nero Tol Scaeva: But your star is long fallen, while mine doth begin to rise.
Nero Tol Scaeva: And it shall burn so bright─so bright that Lord van Baelsar's ultimate weapon will seem a mere candle beside it! Ahahahaha!


[Behind a tree, Noraxia and Frixio heard everything Nero said]
Noraxia: Those walking ones did for Noxia! This one is certain of it!
Frixio: This one fears that other taken ones also suffered the same fate...
Noraxia: This one is convinced! Walking ones have black hearts, seek only to harm these ones! Walking ones are not to be trusted!
Frixio: Now, now, Noraxia...do not pass judgment too hastily. Not all walking ones are alike. Though there are evil ones among the walking ones, there are good ones also.


[Flashback ended]
Frixio: Hm? Does walking one feel unwell?
Frixio: This one would know, what brings walking one to this place?
Frixio: Came to this one's rescue at Noraxia's bidding? Then this one owes walking one a debt of gratitude!
Frixio: Hm? Walking one has questions about Lord Ramuh? Then this one will provide answers.
Frixio: But first, let these ones quit this lightless place.
Frixio: This one will return to Little Solace. When walking one is ready, please come and see this one. These ones may speak properly then.
Frixio: Then it is settled! Let this one accompany walking one outside!


Buscarron: Ah, you're back! Tell me the sylph elder is well!
Buscarron: ...Thank the gods for that! I don't rightly know what to make of the rest of your tale, but I'm full glad Frixio didn't come to any harm.
Buscarron: Ah, but there I go tempting fate. Run over to Little Solace and secure us peace with the sylphs before aught else befalls us, eh? Rest assured, I'll send word to our friends of Sharlayan and the Twin Adder both.
Buscarron: You've done Gridania a great service this day, lad─and earned yourself a place of honor here at the Druthers in so doing. Be sure and come by whenever you feel like a drop of Qiqirn firewater!






Lv. 24        A Simple Gift
Buscarron: Say, friend, if your travels happen to take you by Little Solace, there's something I'd like to ask you to see delivered to the sylphs—this Azeyma rose oil.
Buscarron: It's a gift to celebrate the safe return of their tribe's elder─and a token of Gridania's desire to unite.
Buscarron: The wood is not what it once was. The Calamity changed the elementals─weakened them. Until their strength is returned, we must lend them ours to keep the wood safe. But ours alone will not be enough. We must have the strength of the sylphs, as well.
Buscarron: Only by working together and fighting together will we survive together─and the Twelveswood with us. The gift I ask you to bear is a symbol of the hope that both Gridanian and sylph alike will live to see the light beyond this darkness.


Knolexia: A gift from walking one Buscarron? A gift for these ones?
Knolexia: Such a lovely scent! This one has never before smelled anything like this before!
Knolexia: Walking one Buscarron and adventuring one are very kind. Know that this one is deeply grateful.
Knolexia: Many walking ones are scary. Many walking ones utter many lies and much deception. But this one is moved. Let all these ones be friends forever!




Lv. 24 Believe in Your Sylph
Komuxio: This one has been expecting walking one! This one fetches elder one!
Frixio: This one is pleased to see walking one again. Welcome to the home of these ones.
Papalymo: Ah, there you are, Coral. We have just been hearing tell of your deeds of derring-do. Well done!
Frixio: Ah, the walking ones who aided Noraxia! This one is grateful!
Papalymo: A pleasure to have been of service. If you do not mind my asking, how did your misadventure come about?
Frixio: This one does not mind. The misadventures, as walking one calls them, of this one began when imperial ones entered the wood. Fearing trouble, these ones decided to watch imperial ones closely.
Frixio: But these ones watched too closely, and imperial ones noticed and tried to catch these ones.
Frixio: Having nowhere else to hide, this one fled into Toto-Rak. Would that this one had not. In Toto-Rak, a sinister one robed in black tried to feed this one to a many-legged one!
Yda: A sinister one robed in black...? Why do I have the feeling I should be more worried about that than I am?
Papalymo: Elder Frixio, we come to you as emissaries of the nation of Gridania. This missive bears the words of the Elder Seedseer.
Frixio: This one sees... So walking ones of Gridania are fearful of Lord Ramuh.
Papalymo: Plainly put, yes. Your people summoned the Lord of Levin but once, yet that single occurrence occasioned great alarm.
Yda: But it's not as if the Gridanians dislike you or anything. Actually, it's just the opposite. They think of you as friends, and they don't want anything to get in the way of that. That's why the Elder Seedseer wrote to you.
Frixio: Hmmm... This one well knows and respects horned one Kan-E-Senna. Be assured: like walking ones of Gridania, these ones have no desire for conflict.
Frixio: These ones resorted to summoning Lord Ramuh to protect the wood from imperial ones. This one counseled against doing so, but was not heeded.
Frixio: Against this one's wishes, Lord Ramuh was summoned...and all those ones who took part became touched ones.
Frixio: These ones want so desperately to turn touched ones back to normal ones, but did not know how─and still do not know.
Frixio: Touched ones, meanwhile, wanted to turn these ones into touched ones, and did know how... So this one fled to Little Solace with all those ones who did not wish to be bound to Lord Ramuh.
Frixio: But walking ones of Gridania need not fear touched ones or Lord Ramuh. Unlike other primal ones, Lord Ramuh is not callous and cruel.
Frixio: So long as walking ones do not trespass on these ones' ancestral homeland, where touched ones reside, walking ones will not suffer thunderous judgment.


Frixio: But this one has spoken enough of touched ones. This one would speak instead of these ones. As this one said, these ones desire peace with walking ones of Gridania. And so these ones ask for a chance to set things right.
Papalymo: By way of an addendum, mortals who are tempered come to take on the qualities embodied by the primal in question. In the case of the sylphs, Ramuh's influence has made them fiercely protective of their homeland.
Yda: That explains why they're so hostile towards trespassers, but what about the abductions?
Papalymo: A fine question, Yda! The abductions are, I believe, an expression of the tempered sylphs' desire for reconciliation─another quality traditionally associated with Ramuh. In the crudest manner imaginable, they seek to bring their fellows back into the fold. A timely reminder that the challenges posed by each primal are unique.
Papalymo: Elder Frixio, we thank you for making your will known to us. The people of Gridania will rest easier in the knowledge that they and the sylphs are united in their desire for peace.
Frixio: Wishing to cooperate, this one has written down the feelings of these ones. Please see that these feelings are conveyed to horned one Kan-E-Senna.
Papalymo: And with that, I believe we can lay the matter of Ramuh to rest.
Yda: That sylph elder's very reasonable, I must say. You could learn a lot from him.
Papalymo: ...Hm!? Was that a jibe? If so, I feel it only fair to observe that one of us wouldn't recognize reason if it punched her on the nose. Did I say fair? I meant: reasonable.
Yda: Anyway, we're going to head back to the Waking Sands and tell Minfilia all about it.
Papalymo: Fear not─we will be sure to mention the instrumental part you played in all of this. And while we see to that, we should appreciate it if you would deliver Frixio's missive to the Adders' Nest.
Papalymo: Elder Frixio, we humbly thank you for your time. It has been an honor.
Frixio: The honor is this one's. Together, let the walking ones of Gridania and these ones find a way to live in peace.
Frixio: Please wait, walking one Coral.
Frixio: This one has yet to give walking one a token of this one's appreciation.
Frixio: When these ones summoned Lord Ramuh, these ones were gifted this crystal. This one would now bestow the crystal upon walking one as a symbol of these ones' trust.


[Within the crystal realm, the pink crystal was added to the adventure’s possession]
Frixio: <gasp> This one was not mistaken about walking one.
Frixio: Walking one is destined to walk a fate far crueler than this one can imagine.
Frixio: A brilliant light from within walking one enveloped the crystal─this one saw.
Frixio: Mark this one well: that crystal will one day be of use to walking one. Walking one must keep that crystal safe at all times.
Komuxio: Before walking one returns to Gridania, this one would ask walking one to watch touched ones.
Komuxio: So long as touched ones are not troubled, touched ones will not make trouble.
Komuxio: If walking one witnesses touched ones making no trouble, mayhap walking one can testify to walking ones of Gridania that these ones mean no harm.
Komuxio: These ones' homeland is fraught with danger. This one marks down safe places to look out for touched ones.


[Stand /lookout east of Little Solace]
[There are tempered sylphs in the distance.You do not sense that they pose a danger if left alone.


Vorsaile Heuloix: Ah, Private Ferrinas. How went the meeting with the sylphs?
Vorsaile Heuloix: A missive from the sylph elder himself!? If I may...
Vorsaile Heuloix: So the sylphs have no desire for conflict, nor do they intend to summon Ramuh.
Vorsaile Heuloix: And so long as we leave the tempered ones be, we need not fear any aggression on their part.
Vorsaile Heuloix: The Elder Seedseer will be overjoyed to hear that the sylphs have welcomed our overtures. And in the knowledge that they bear us no ill will, we may channel our resources towards tackling the more conspicuous threats to our security.
Vorsaile Heuloix: You have done our nation a great service, Private Ferrinas. It will not be forgotten.




Lv. 24        Back from the Wood
232
Papalymo: This being the case, we must proceed with as much haste as prudence allows.
Yda: Any word on Titan?
Y'shtola: The Maelstrom keeps the kobolds under constant observation.
Y'shtola: We shall hear from them ere long, you may depend upon it.
Papalymo: Indeed. So, then─of all the known primals that have been active in recent times, we are left with...
Yda: Gridania! Wait, I meant Garuda─who is the primal of the Ixal who live in Gridania. Yes, that's what I meant.
Minfilia: So many malms to cover... Would that there were a more efficient way to conduct our surveys.
Minfilia: Were he still with us, we should not long have wanted for a more practicable solution...
Biggs: She's not wrong there... <sigh> Where in the world are you, Chief?
Minfilia: ...But one sure step at a time!
Minfilia: Henceforth, the Order of the Twin Adder will handle all matters pertaining to the sylphs, under the sage guidance of the Seedseers.
Minfilia: I bid you all enjoy a moment's respite. You have earned it!
Minfilia: Is there something else, Coral?
Minfilia: Beg pardon? A man named Lahabrea, sporting a red mask and robed in black...? Twelve preserve...
Minfilia: Prior to the Calamity, the Ascians took great pains to remain hidden... Why would they choose to cast off their veil of secrecy now? Gods, this bodes ill...
Minfilia: We must take advantage of the present lull in primal hostilities and investigate this Lahabrea─learn all we can of him and his designs. I dread to thi─
Tataru: EEEEEEK!
Minfilia: Tataru!
Minfilia: A sylph...in Thanalan?
Noraxia: At long last, this one finds walking one Coral!
Noraxia: This one is most dependable of these ones! Is sent by elder one Frixio to help walking ones!
Noraxia: This one is called Noraxia. This one comes as a friend. Let these ones be friends!
Tataru: P-Pleasure to meet you...Noraxia.


[NPC Interraction]
Thancred: ...Ah, Coral. Pray do not concern yourself with my welfare. My current investigation has yielded some curious results, and at present I am pondering how best to proceed.
Bremondt: Wait a minute. I know you─the carriage into Gridania, right? It's me, Bremondt! How in the hells did you end up here, lad? Ah, never mind─you can tell me later. I've got to ask you somethin' first. This might sound strange, but you haven't by chance seen a fella what looks exactly like me? I'm lookin' for my twin brothers, see, an' I heard they might've come through here.
Bremondt: <sigh> They could be dead, for all I know. Least it feels like I've been chasin' ghosts for an eternity now.
Clive: Greetings, Scion. I come on behalf of the Students of Baldesion. You may address me as Clive.
Clive: ...Is there some reason you are still here? Please, carry on. I am not here to see you.
Wedge: People in masks cannot be trusted? But Biggs and I wear masks all the time when welding!
Biggs: <sigh> If only Master Garlond were still with us...
Biggs: He was a brilliant man, full of life and purpose. Kind and generous, he taught us everything we know about engineering. Though believe me, he could also be a very hard person to please.
Biggs: He would force us to completely rebuild devices if even a single flaw was discovered. I can only imagine what he'd say if he saw the Tiny Bronco...
Liavinne: In recent days, I've resumed my training. Idle hands make for idle minds, and painful memories are all too quick to resurface.


Una Tayuun: I'm startin' t' wonder if it's worth the hassle t' prove who we was.
Una Tayuun: I mean, maybe some folk would say “Good on ye mate, thanks for fightin' t' save Eorzea!” an' whatnot. But I reckon most would ask what we've done for 'em lately, if not spit in our faces for allowin' Bahamut t' blow up half the godsdamned world...
Urianger: Dost thou knowest the import of the broken staff within the solar? It fell from the grasp of Archon Louisoix, the man who, in his abiding love for all Eorzeans, shielded us against the storm of the Calamity.
Urianger: The stars wheel across the heavens, and the skies brighten once more. The survivors gather, and ignite a fiery dawn to burn away the glowering shroud. Ah, but destiny, thou art beautiful...
Haribehrt: There are two types of Ala Mhigans─fools who wish to fight back but know not how, and cowards who've chosen to run from their worries.
Haribehrt: The young man over there is a striking example of the former. Me? I'm the latter, or couldn't you tell?
Y'shtola: As you have doubtless witnessed in your travels, the lands of Eorzea are gasping under the pall of a suffocating darkness.
Y'shtola: I must wonder if it is this darkness that invites disaster, or simply that disaster has left such gloom in its wake. One thing is for certain: now is not the time to relax our vigilance.
A'aba Tia: A masked man? I vaguely recall some Amalj'aa rantin' about somethin' like that in the middle of a skirmish. 'Course, I wasn't listenin' too closely, on account of the fact their friends were tryin' to kill me.
A'aba Tia: I don't mean to waste yer time, friend, but that's the only thing what comes to mind. 
Arenvald: I'm to meet with the Antecedent soon to discuss a matter of great import. A'aba thinks it's about my first official mission. I suppose it would be good if it was, yes? I mean, I'm not sure if I'm ready, but still...
Noraxia: Walking ones from Ul'dah have not seen these ones before─this one knows. Still, must walking ones make such screaming sounds when seeing this one's face? This one cannot get a wink of rest!
Papalymo: Look, I realize that this makes no sense to you, but you must try to be more discreet. Years ago, a law was enacted in Ul'dah whereby─
<sigh> Please, just trust me and stay out of sight...
Yda: Noraxia and I both wear a mask! We're going to get along famously, I just know it!


Minfilia: Yes, Tataru is as ready to express her fright as she is to express...everything else! Not all of us are forged of the same steel as you, I'm afraid.
Minfilia: But it takes all kinds to make a family, and it pleases me to no end to see ours continue to grow. One by one, the people of Eorzea are beginning to unite, Coral, drawn to the hope that shines within you.
Minfilia: Yet a darkness threatens to engulf this light. Never have I doubted the Ascians' presence, but that they have grown so brazen as to carry out their work in plain sight fills me with a sense of deep foreboding.


Lv. 24 Shadow of Darkness


Minfilia: I am afraid there is no rest for the weary, Coral. We must delve further into the motivations of the masked man─the Ascian known as Lahabrea. This is an ideal moment to do so, while our hands are not bound dealing with another primal.
Minfilia: At present, we know little and less about the Ascians─only that destruction follows in their wake.
Minfilia: I should not be surprised if these beings are behind the chaos that racks the realm. If my fears prove to be reality, we must do all in our power to stop them.
Minfilia: Earlier, I sent word to each Grand Company to solicit cooperation. The Immortal Flames responded to the effect that they have information on a potential sighting.
Minfilia: This is intelligence that we can ill afford to ignore. Go speak with Flame Commander Swift at the Hall of Flames in Ul'dah to inquire further. How you go about the investigation thereafter, I leave wholly to your discretion.
Minfilia: But whatever you do, never forget that we are dealing with the unknown. You cannot take too many precautions. Be safe, Coral.


Minfilia: To think that the Ascians have grown so brazen as to carry out their work in plain view...
Minfilia: We must needs uncover their dark designs, that we might take measures against them. I am relying on you, Coral.


Swift: The masked man? Ah, you are come on behalf of the Scions, of course. Yes, as we've already relayed to Lady Minfilia, there has been a sighting of this rogue near about eastern Thanalan.
Swift: A Brass Blade stationed at Highbridge described him in detail when he alerted us to suspicious activity. I would point you to the witness, but I'm afraid he died not two days ago, slain by a marauding horde of Qiqirn. Fate can be a cruel mistress.
Swift: But do not be too quick to despair. Being an airship landing, Highbridge sees heavy traffic. Folk are always coming and going, and some among them may well have caught a glimpse of your target.
Swift: You could do worse than to speak with a merchant named Hihibaru. The fellow's always starved for customers, and he'd no doubt welcome your attention, whether or not you have coin or the mind to spend it.


Hihibaru: Welcome to Highbridge, adventurer! Whatever you seek, I, Hihibaru, can provide it.
...Probably!
Hihibaru: You're after a masked man? Hmmm, I'm not sure I have one of those in stock...
Hihibaru: Ohhh, you're after a masked man! Why didn't you say so sooner? Such an individual might have featured in one of the many rumors I've heard. If you linger awhile, mayhap you'll learn a thing or two, eh?






Lv. 24 Highbridge Times
Hihibaru: When the Order of Nald'thal began excavating the ruins below, I had hopes that Highbridge would turn into a bustling hub for pilgrims. But thanks to the nigh endless beastman raids, folk are too afraid to come within a malm of here.
Hihibaru: I sold everything I owned to get my venture started, and I'm loath to give up without making an earnest effort to stick it out. But if things keep going as they are, I'll be bankrupt before the moon is through...
Hihibaru: Whining won't do me any good, though. No, for my business to survive, I need business. Speaking of which, perhaps you'd like to browse my wares! Spend a bit of coin to help a struggling merchant!
Hihibaru: ...The masked man? Bah, Thal take your bloody masked man! I know what I said before, but vague rumors are all I've got. If you want to know about him, go and ask the other merchants!


Multiloquent Merchant: Aye, I've heard tell of the masked devil. Seems he's been appearing not only around Highbridge, but elsewhere about Thanalan, too.
Multiloquent Merchant: Enough folk have reported seeing him to convince me he's more than a figment of the imagination, but little is known about him otherwise.


Absent-minded Merchant: On the trail of a masked man? Aye, I've heard of him...but only in hushed tones and faint whispers.
Absent-minded Merchant: It's said he wears a black hooded robe, and looks right suspicious. An' that's about all I can say, little though it is.
Impassive Merchant: Have I seen a masked man wearing a dark robe? No, I haven't, nor do I wish to. Business is bad enough without shady characters lurking about.
Impassive Merchant: Folk have been giving Highbridge a wide berth because of all the Qiqirn raids. None but the most devout of pilgrims are willing to come here anymore.


Hihibaru: Judging by your expression, I take it you didn't learn much of use.
Hihibaru: Look, I'm sorry for my rudeness earlier. It's just that things are tough for us merchants at the moment. The Qiqirn raids are so constant, so organized, we're beginning to suspect that someone is orchestrating it all.
Hihibaru: I tend to put my own welfare first, like most of us do, but that doesn't mean I'm a bad person. I promise to keep an eye out for your masked man. If I see or hear anything, you'll be the first to know.




Lv. 24        Ratting It Out


Hihibaru: Ah, the investigative adventurer! Are you still on the trail of that masked man, by any chance? I happened to remember something, and would share it with you!
Hihibaru: You'll recall my telling you how the Qiqirn have been raiding Highbridge nigh without cease. Well, there is a rumor that those filthy rats have been meeting with a great hulk of a man in secret.
Hihibaru: While I can't say whether this is the mystery fellow you seek, I reckon it's as good a lead as any other.
Hihibaru: According to witnesses, the rendezvous takes place in the Qiqirn lair located southeast of here. If you go there, perhaps you'll come upon some kind of clue. Be careful, though: the nasty buggers don't take kindly to visitors...


Hihibaru: So, did you end up investigating the Qiqirn lair?
Hihibaru: A letter you can't make heads or tails of? Let me see here...
...Hmmm, this is written in Amaljic. You're in luck! Just so happens I learned a spot of it back in the day, so as to expand my potential clientele. Seems the contents pertain to... Whoa! People trafficking!?
Hihibaru: Gods be good... If I'm reading this right, the Qiqirn are trying to strike a deal with the Amalj'aa. They mean to catch hapless souls at Highbridge and sell them off like sacks of popotoes!
Hihibaru: To think that different tribes of beastmen are colluding in their villainy... I must warn everyone to maintain vigilance!
Hihibaru: You have my thanks, adventurer. Had you not braved the Qiqirn lair, no one here would have known what the creatures were plotting until they actually began picking us off, one by one.
Hihibaru: On the other hand...I suppose this means you're no closer to finding your man. Well, unless it's an Amalj'aa you're looking for. But, uh...probably not, huh?




Lv. 25        Where There Is Smoke
Hihibaru: I've finally got some honest-to-gods information on your masked man! This time, it's the real thing, I swear! Why so confident? Because I saw him with my own two eyes!
Hihibaru: I was out for an evening stroll, minding my own business, when I noticed a column of smoke rising from a cliff over at Thal's Respite. Curious, I took myself there to find a masked man─your masked man, I'm sure of it─standing by a fire.
Hihibaru: As if in answer, some Qiqirn appeared soon after, and the group began talking at length. I'm afraid I was too far out of earshot to hear much of anything.
Hihibaru: After the group had dispersed, an idea came to me: if you were to use this smoldering coal to start a fire, you might be able to arrange a similar meeting. It will be dangerous, I shouldn't doubt, but you've proven yourself more than a match for a pack of rats.
Hihibaru: So, what do you think? That's some sound, reliable information, even if I do say so myself. Well worth all the lingering about you've been doing, wouldn't you say?




Hihibaru: Back so soon? Were you able to find any clues leading to your masked man?
Hihibaru: <gasp> Th-This scroll! It bears a prayer to Rhalgr, the Destroyer!
Hihibaru: In case you're unfamiliar, Rhalgr is the guardian deity of Ala Mhigo, which is currently under Garlean rule.
Hihibaru: It's highly uncommon for folk of other nations to revere Him. I'd wager my last gil that your assailant was Ala Mhigan.
Hihibaru: It seems this masked man of yours is very well connected. I must confess, the merchant in me envies such a diverse network of contacts.
Hihibaru: That selfsame merchant also senses danger ahead...and darkness besides. Are you certain you'd rather not take things nice and slow here at Highbridge?






Lv. 25        On to Little Ala Mhigo


Hihibaru: The Ala Mhigan bandit you had a run-in with is somehow connected to your masked man of mystery.
Hihibaru: So, it stands to reason that if you want to pick up the trail again, you should head toward Little Ala Mhigo, over in southern Thanalan.
Hihibaru: Just so you know what to expect, the settlement is the favored destination for those refugees who couldn't...well, adapt to life in Ul'dah.
Hihibaru: The hearts of the denizens are said to be as barren as the wasteland they live in. And for all intents and purposes, it's a lawless place. Be prepared for a none-so-warm welcome.
Hihibaru: Now, I'm not certain how much a help she will be, but it just so happens I have a daughter who has, er...relocated to Little Ala Mhigo. Her name is Hihira, and it shouldn't hurt to seek her out first.
Hihibaru: And while you have her attention...I'd be obliged if you could send my love. Not a day goes by that I don't think of her.
Hihibaru: I suppose this is it, then! I had hoped that you would linger here a while─cull some fiends, spend some coin, what have you─but something tells me you're destined for greater things. Wherever it is you end up, I wish you the best!


Hihira: ...Hm? Why, yes, Hihibaru's my father... He said what?
<sigh> I wish I could be a better daughter to him. It's just that— Oh, I'm sorry... I shouldn't bother you with family matters. But I am grateful to you for delivering the message. Now then, what brings you here?
Hihira: A masked man? I'm afraid the description doesn't ring any bells, but one of the others here may have seen something. I would recommend you first speak with Gundobald, the leader of the settlement. I must warn you, though, he isn't exactly...accommodating to outsiders.
Gundobald: Who are you? State your business, and be quick about it.
Gundobald: Looking for a masked villain, you say? And why should we help you, pray?
Gundobald: We struggle enough without having to answer the whim of every outsider.
Gundobald: You are not welcome here. Begone.


Lv.25        Tea for Three
Gisilbehrt: Well met, adventurer. I'm Gisilbehrt, head of security here at Little Ala Mhigo. I heard tell that you had business with Gundobald. Knowing the bristly old bear, I don't doubt he told you to bugger off.
Gisilbehrt: Owing to their hardships, the refugees don't trust anyone but themselves. Not even my men and I can get so much as a word of thanks out of them despite watching the place day and night.
Gisilbehrt: But thanks or no, I try to help my fellow man when I can, and you seem a decent sort. If you tell me what's brought you here, might be as I can lend a hand.
Gisilbehrt: ...On the trail of a masked villain, you say? Hmmm, can't say that sounds familiar, but I have men on lookout for Amalj'aa to the south of here. If there's been any suspicious activity, they are like to have seen it.
Gisilbehrt: I had a mind to take them each a cup of sweet Thanalan tea so as to lift their spirits. If you were to run this little errand in my stead, they'd be all the more willing to tell you what they know.


Osric: Who the hells're you? I'm tryin' to conserve energy here, so leave me alone.
Osric: Well, ain't ye considerate! My thanks, friend!
...What's that? A masked villain? Hidin' among the refugees, like as not.
Osric: Me compatriots as live here go about as though they're dead on their feet. 'Tis near impossible to tell what's on their minds. For all I know, they're all up to no good.
Angry River: You there! Are you an Amalj'aa? No? Then carry on!
Angry River: Ahhh, this sophisticated aroma! It has been forever since I had a drop of sweet Thanalan! I'm going to enjoy this!
Angry River: What? A masked man? Don't know, don't care! Unless he's got dark scaly skin, stands ten fulms tall, and has the face of a lizard, then I don't give a mummer's fart!
Yayazuku: Shoo, shoo! Don't bother me! If the Amalj'aa overrun us, I'm blaming you!
Yayazuku: For me? You shouldn't have!
...Sorry? A suspicious masked man? As a matter of fact, I caught glimpse of someone fitting that description during patrol.
Yayazuku: Well, I couldn't quite make out whether it was a man or not, what with the mask and the robe. But assuming it was a he, he was talking with some Ala Mhigans. I assumed he was one of them.


Gisilbehrt: Ah, you're back. So, did my lookouts have aught to share with you?
...Hmmm, that doesn't sound like much to go by. 
Gisilbehrt: If you're to get any further in your investigation, seems to me you'll need the cooperation of the Ala Mhigans. For this, you'll need to win their trust, and that won't be an easy task.




Lv. 25 Foot in the Door
Gisilbehrt: So you're determined to press on with your investigation? Then I have some advice to offer.
Gisilbehrt: As I said before, you won't get far without the Ala Mhigans' trust. And the best way to win that trust is to get a compatriot of theirs─someone they respect─to vouch for you.
Gisilbehrt: Coin does the talking in Ul'dah, but the Ala Mhigans are bound by something far stronger, if not as tangible: a common purpose. That purpose is, of course, the liberation of their home from the Garleans.
Gisilbehrt: Gundobald belongs to the Ala Mhigan Resistance, so your best bet would be someone who's part of the same crew. If you know any well-connected people, you might want to start by asking them.




Minfilia: Welcome back, Coral! How fares the investigation?
Minfilia: ...I see. Given all that they have suffered, it is of little wonder the Ala Mhigan refugees have lost faith in their fellow man.
Minfilia: They have had their homeland taken from them, and for the past two decades have had to see it remain in the enemy's clutches.
Minfilia: To compound matters, none of the three city-states have the means to take in all those who were displaced. As a result, a great many Ala Mhigans now live on the margins of society, suffering poverty and discrimination.
Minfilia: <sigh> Would that more could be done to ease their hardships. I fear that nothing short of reclaiming their homeland would be a lasting solution.
Minfilia: But let us deal with one problem at a time. Returning to the matter of your investigation, it just so happens there is an Ala Mhigan native among the Scions. I should be pleased to introduce him to you.


Lv. 26 Meeting with the Resistance
Minfilia: Your Ala Mhigan comrade is named Haribehrt. He joined our cause in the hopes that he might find a way to liberate his homeland.
Minfilia: While he spares no effort towards that endeavor, I have no doubt that he would be glad to assist you.
Minfilia: If I recall correctly, Haribehrt is currently between missions. Try looking for him in the storage area.
Haribehrt: If it isn't Coral Ferrinas, the Scions' rising star! Is there aught I can do for you? 
Haribehrt: You wish to win the trust of the people of Little Ala Mhigo! That is a daunting task, my friend, even for our own countrymen.
Haribehrt: I would like nothing more than to help, but I'm afraid my name no longer carries weight with that lot.
Haribehrt: I used to be a member of the Ala Mhigan Resistance, you see, but I left in favor of joining the Scions.
Haribehrt: Though my allegiance may have shifted, my purpose remains ever the same─the liberation of Ala Mhigo. Yet whatever my reasons were, I abandoned my comrades, and they'll have nothing to do with me.
Haribehrt: Now, while I may have no more friends in the Resistance, I know someone who does. Her name is Albreda, and she is a resident of Quarrymill. Say my name when you meet her, and she won't lead you astray.


Albreda: Eh? You want me to introduce you to the Resistance? Hah! Why the hells should I do that? Give me just one reason!
Albreda: H-Haribehrt sent you!? Grrr, that worthless whoreson... He abandons his comrades─his woman─and now he has the gall to ask me for a favor!? Simply incredible...
Albreda: I just... I mean... <sigh> Ugh. I realize Haribehrt was only doing what he felt was right. He's a good man. And if he trusts you, then that's all I need to know. You see that bloke there? That's Meffrid, a captain of the Resistance. I hope he can give you what you need.


Lv. 26        Killing Him Softly
Meffrid: Aye, I'm Meffrid, a proud man of the Ala Mhigan Resistance.
Meffrid: What business do you have with me, adventurer?
Resistance Soldier: C-Captain! It's...it's Gallien, sir! His wound's gone an' festered, an' he's burnin' up! I don't think he's got much time!
Meffrid: Godsdammit! I asked the villagers for aid─got on my knees and begged─but they refused to lift a finger! If Gallien dies, his blood is on their hands!
Meffrid: These Quarrymill cravens would turn a blind eye to our plight, but they might listen to Albreda. I fear my anger will prevent me from rightly convincing anyone at the moment. I realize we scarce know each other, but this is a matter of life and death. Please, adventurer, go to her and try!
Albreda: One of Meffrid's in bad shape, you say? I'm...I'm sorry, but there's naught I can do.
Albreda: I want to help, truly I do─they're my countrymen, after all─but that'd mean going against the elementals' will.
Albreda: I've been at Quarrymill long enough to know how right terrible the beings can be. I couldn't forgive myself if everyone gets banished because of me.
Albreda: If there's anyone who can help you, it'd be Charline, the hamlet's resident Hearer. If you take the matter to her, might be as she'll listen...though I wouldn't get my hopes up.


Charline: You wish to aid the Ala Mhigans? You are possessed of a kind heart, adventurer, but I'm afraid I have not the authority to grant you your wish.
Charline: This authority belongs only to the elementals, eternal guardians of the Twelveswood. All outsiders, be they babes at the breast or men grown, are judged of a night whether they may have a place beneath the boughs.
Charline: Alas, the Ala Mhigans's petition has been denied. Harsh though it may seem, they do not have leave to receive of the wood's bounty. Ever has it been since time immemorial, and ever shall it be.




Meffrid: That's how it's to be, then!? The bloody Hearer might as well kill Gallien herself!
Meffrid: Spit on the elementals and spit on their bloody will! I cannot wait until the Resistance is free of this place!






Lv. 27        Helping Horn
Meffrid: I led my men to Quarrymill hoping to find refuge─instead we've found indifference. The cold-blooded bastards here want us out, and I can't oblige them soon enough. The problem is, some of mine aren't fit to travel─hells, Gallien can't even stand!
Meffrid: As you well know, the people of this accursed hamlet won't help us. So, I've no choice but to turn to you, adventurer.
Meffrid: In my homeland, long antelope horn is a traditional remedy with poison-purging properties. If you could bring me, say, four horns, I'd forever be in your debt.
Meffrid: Ah, you're back! Tell me you've got four horns with you!
Meffrid: You're a godssend, adventurer! Praise Rhalgr there's at least one man in this place who gives a damn. Now we just need to find a way to prepare them...
Meffrid: You wouldn't happen to know a man named Buscarron, would you? Some comrades of mine told me about him once. They said he never turns away folk in need, no matter where they're from.
Meffrid: Seeing as he runs a tavern, he's like to have the tools to make the medicine. I'd be grateful if you could take the horns over to him to have them ground down. When that's done, bring the powder back, and give it to Faramund here. Godsspeed.


Buscarron: Ah, Coral, ever a sight for sore eyes! How fares the adventuring? Rolling in the coin like there's no tomorrow, no doubt!
...Hm? You've got something to show me?
Buscarron: Well, these look like good old antelope horns. Need them ground down to make a medicine, you say?
Buscarron: Here's a better idea: I'll give you some of the stuff I have in my stores. Aye, I'm no stranger to the remedy. An Ala Mhigan friend once used it to treat my festering wound, years and years ago. Safe to say he saved my life.
Buscarron: What's that? This is for an Ala Mhigan soldier in Quarrymill? Heh, so it comes full circle... Well, I hope it helps the poor sod as needs it. Oh, and don't worry your little head off about payment─I still owe you a deal more than you owe me, I reckon.








Faramund: It is well to see you returned. Have you the medicine for our brother?
Faramund: Gods bless you, adventurer! I'll see that Gallien receives treatment at once!
Faramund: Hopefully, this will allow the captain to rest easier. It has been a terrible burden on him, trying to keep every man of us alive. You've done us a great kindness, friend.




Lv. 27        He Ain’t Heavy
Meffrid: A-Adventurer! Gallien has gone missing! He's nowhere to be found!
Meffrid: He shouldn't be walking about, not with those wounds! If he doesn't get the proper medicine and rest, his condition's like to deteriorate to where it was before...or worse.
Meffrid: We need you to help us find him, and quickly. Start by asking Albreda─might be as the woman's seen something!


Albreda: Ah, finally. It's about time you came asking about Gallien. I watched him leave Quarrymill some time ago, and he left me this sealed letter before he went off. Made me swear not to open it until someone came asking...
Albreda: “My brothers,


I cannot bear to be a burden any longer. That is why I must leave you all. Do not worry for me─just find your way safely to Little Ala Mhigo.”
Albreda: <sigh> Blast it. Would that I'd known what he was thinking. I'd have stopped this folly myself.
Albreda: The love Gallien bears for his brothers is so strong, he's willing to sacrifice himself for them. Make no mistake, entering the wood in his weakened state is suicide.


Meffrid: Out in the wilds...alone!? That fool! That great big sentimental fool!
Meffrid: My men and I will scour the wood for Gallien! Please help us find him before something terrible happens!


Gallien: <pant> <pant> W-Watch out! A goblin!
Meffrid: Gallien!
Gallien: C-Captain? But...why? You should all be on your way...
Meffrid: Who do you take us for!? We're Ala Mhigans, and Ala Mhigans never forsake one another, hardships be damned!
Meffrid: Remember the oath we swore, godsdammit─the oath to reclaim our homeland! We'll set foot on Ala Mhigan soil again─together─or not at all! Do you understand me!?
Gallien: Yes, sir...
Meffrid: Good. Let us return to our brothers. Oh, and don't even think that you'll get off lightly. As soon as you're healed, I'll give you such a thorough thrashing, you'll wish we didn't find you!
Meffrid: I can't thank you enough for saving Gallien. I will see you back at Quarrymill.


Meffrid: Gallien's expected to make a full recovery. We'll linger here till he's strong enough to take to the road again. As much as I mislike this place, beggars can't be choosers.




Lv.27        Come Highly Recommended
Meffrid: Now that things are relatively settled, I seem to recall that you wanted something of me.
Meffrid: You've proven a true friend to my people. Ask of me anything, and it's yours, so long as it's mine to give.
Meffrid: The cooperation of the people of Little Ala Mhigo? That's all? Far be it from me to question your desires, of course... Very well, I will provide you with a letter to show to Gundobald.
Meffrid: The old bear was my mentor when I first joined the Resistance. He's intimidating to those who don't know him, but he takes care of his own. I've no doubt that he will do all in his power to aid you.


Gundobald: Why have you returned? You are not welcome here; I thought I made that clear.
Gundobald: You...you spoke with Meffrid? It has been so long since I last heard from him, I had feared him dead... Twelve be praised...
Gundobald: Whoever you are, Meffrid sees you as a friend, and any friend of Meffrid is a friend of mine. I know of this masked stranger you seek, and will tell you what I can.




Lv. 27        The Bear and the Young’uns’ Cares
Gundobald: An outsider resembling your masked stranger has reportedly been appearing near Little Ala Mhigo of late. What's more, it seems that some of our young bloods are meeting him in secret.
Gundobald: No doubt you'll want to question them about their trysts, but they are not like to yield the information readily to an outsider. If you tell them I sent you, though, they may well feel obliged to talk.


Waldhar: ...A masked man? No idea what yer talkin' about. I ain't done nothin' wrong, so leave me be.
Adalind: G-Gundobald sent you? I, uh— Listen, I told them it was a bad idea! All that tripe about believing the masked man and—
Adalind: ...O-Oh. You...you don't know anything about this? Why didn't you say so to start with!? You can't throw the old bear's name around like that and expect me to not think I'm in for it!


Talebot: There's a bunch been skulkin' about right suspicious, like, but I've got nothin' to do with 'em. I know trouble when I see it, an' that there's trouble, mark me words.
Sifrid: What? Have I been meeting any masked men lately? Hmmm, let's see...
Sifrid: Nope, can't say I have! But I'll be sure to tell all my friends you're looking for him.


Gundobald: So, you have indeed confirmed my suspicions about a masked man... That is most troubling. Whatever the young ones are scheming, it can lead to no good end.
Gundobald: There's an anger inside them─I can see it in their eyes. I ought to know, for it once burned within me as well.
Gundobald: Two decades ago, this anger drove my brothers and I to rise against the despot who ruled Ala Mhigo. Naught would do but we to depose him and usher in a revolution. Well, we got our revolution all right...but it cost us our freedom.
Gundobald: Blinded by our hate, we didn't realize that we had been dancing to the Empire's tune. By the time we did, it was too late. Ala Mhigo had fallen.
Gundobald: There are times when a man must be patient. Now is such a time, though the young ones know this not. Unless we intervene, they are like to commit great folly. If you learn aught of their plans, I would thank you to bring word to me.


Lv. 27        Wilred Wants You
Hremfing: Hey, adventurer. You done talking with the old bear?
Hremfing: I've got a message for you from Wilred. Lad's something of a leader among the young ones here.
Hremfing: He's impressed that you've won over Gundobald, and wants a word with you. Says he'll be waiting over at the craggy area north of here.


Wilred: Thanks for coming, friend. 'Tis no ordinary outsider who can gain the trust of the old bear. That's why I wanted to meet you, to discuss something in private.
Wilred: Tell me...why are you snooping about? Did the Empire send you? Or someone else?
Wilred: Coeurl got your tongue? Hmph, no matter. Whoever it is you work for, your meddling ends here. Get him!
Wilred: Y-You're stronger than you look...
Wilred: This changes nothing! Threaten us, beat us bloody all you like...but nothing short of death can make us give up our fight!
Wilred: We're going to obtain the power to bring down the Empire, and with it we'll reclaim our homeland!


Gundobald: Attacked by Wilred and his cronies!? That they would go to such lengths for the sake of this plan of theirs...
Gundobald: Left to their own devices, the young fools are like to harm others, if not themselves. We must uncover their agenda and put an end to this madness.


Lv.27        Big Trouble in Little Ala Mhigo
Gundobald: Wilred mentioned obtaining the power to bring down the Empire. Of what power could he be speaking...?
???: Gun...Gundobald... <groan> I-I...
Gundobald: Bertliana!? Gods preserve! What happened!?
Bertliana: I was out foraging...when the Corpse Brigade came... They took me to their hideout...and they...they... <sob>
Bertliana: The whole while, they laughed at me... <sob> They said that I suffer...
b-because I cling on to hope... <sob>
Bertliana: Is it wrong to dream of home? Is it wrong to call ourselves Ala Mhigans?
Gundobald: Do not heed such poisonous notions, child. Our dreams are what sustain us. Be strong─I swear to you, those villains will answer for their crimes in due time. But tell me...does anyone else know of this?
Bertliana: Wilred... He saw me outside... He was so angry...
Gundobald: I must tend to Bertliana. In the meantime, I need you to find out what the young ones make of this. I fear that they may do something rash.


Riled Youth: If this plan succeeds, we'll have the power to lay the Empire low! To change the world for the better!
Riled Youth: Might be as Gundobald's content to eke out an existence in this musty old cave, but I'll be damned if I'm going to spend the rest of my life here. Now, where in the seven hells did I put that bloody map?
Wilred: O mighty Rhalgr, Lord of Destruction...we implore you, lend us your strength and put an end to the suffering of your people...
Wilred: Hmph, here to interfere again? Well, you're too late. Our plan is already in motion.
Wilred: Once we have the crystals, our enemies will pay for their crimes, and no one will dare oppress us ever again!
Riled Lass: What those animals did to Bertliana is unforgivable! And to think they look down on us!
Riled Lass: Well, I'll suffer this humiliation no more! I'm with Wilred to the bitter end! I'm not afraid of a few lizards!


Gundobald: ...Gone? The whole lot of them? Then it is as I feared─they mean to take matters into their own hands. But what exactly is it that they mean to do?
Gundobald: What's this? A hunting knife...and a map of Zanr'ak? ...Wait. You said Wilred spoke of crystals, did you not? But they couldn't possibly mean to─ By the gods, this is rank madness...
Gundobald: The young fools are untrained and unblooded, all. They have no notion of how dangerous the Amalj'aa are. They'll be butchered before they get within a hundred yalms of the crystals.
Gundobald: They are headed east. If we hurry, we may yet find them before it's too late.






Gundobald: Wilred... Did no others survive?
Wilred: This is all wrong... Getting the crystals was supposed to be the start... We were going to reclaim our homeland... We were... We...
Gundobald: Pull yourself together, lad!
Wilred: W-We were going to make an offering of crystals to Rhalgr─to summon Him, j-just like the masked man taught us.
Wilred: We plotted to sneak into Zanr'ak and make off with the lizardmen's cache, b-but they caught us and...and... So many dead... Gods forgive me...
???: Heathens! You shall pay for your crimes with your souls!
Gundobald: I regret our young ones' transgressions, but a soul is too high a price for youthful folly.
Gundobald: For all their failings, they are the hope of the Ala Mhigan people. This hope I will guard with my life.


[Batlle]
Wilred of the Falling Petal: Forgive us... We...we only wanted...
Gundobald the Resolute: The excuses will keep!
Lavafang Hemozz Teh: The whelps must pay for their crimes!
Gundobald the Resolute: I will not let you harm them!
Gundobald the Resolute: Adventurer, stay close to Wilred!
Strapping Lad: No! I don't want to die!
Lavafang Hemozz Teh: Come, ye blessed of our Lord's breath!
The Echo grants you strength beyond your limits!
Gundobald the Resolute: We almost have them!
Strapping Lad: Mummy!!!




Gundobald: Your skill at arms is impressive, adventurer. Our wayward youths could learn much from a man like you.
Gundobald: The battle is won, but it would be unwise to linger here. Let us return to Little Ala Mhigo.
Wilred: W-Wait! We've come all this way─we have to get the crystals! They're right there, ripe for the picking!
Gundobald: Have you learned nothing, Wilred? Did you not see those tempered wretches?
Gundobald: Such is the fate of those who are touched by a god. Is that what you desire for yourself and your friends?
Wilred: What!? N-No one said anything about─ The masked man told us we could defeat the Empire if we summoned Rhalgr! He swore─
Gundobald: Enough. I will hear the rest of this sorry tale back in Little Ala Mhigo. I daresay Coral will wish to hear it as well.


Gundobald: No more lies, Wilred. Tell us everything.
Wilred: I was outside with the others when he appeared─the masked stranger.
Wilred: He told us about summoning Rhalgr, about using crystals, and then just...vanished. We never saw him again.
Wilred: I wanted so desperately to believe that we could raise ourselves from this squalor that I never stopped to question his motives. But I should have known─there's no solution, nothing we can do to change our lot. Our people are doomed to live and die like beasts...
Gundobald: Listen to me, Wilred. Our home may be lost to us, but it takes more than stones and mortar to define who we are. No matter where we may be, Ala Mhigo lives on within us all.
Gundobald: It is for you to decide what to make of this legacy. But whatever you choose to do with your life, never forget that you owe it to this adventurer─an outsider.
Wilred: I...I won't. I promise.
Wilred: Thank you for saving me. And...sorry I tried to kill you.
Gundobald: My thanks as well, friend. It gives us hope to know that there are kind souls such as you out there. Little Ala Mhigo may not have much in the way of comfort, but you will always be welcome here.




Lv. 27 Back to Square One
Gundobald: Would that we had more information to offer, but what Wilred told you is the extent of our knowledge of the masked stranger.
Gundobald: Left unchecked, that man will bring about great pain and suffering. I pray that you'll find and put a swift end to the creature─for the sake of the young ones who died by his poisoned words.


Minfilia: Welcome back, Coral! I'm reliably informed the investigation took you to Quarrymill and Little Ala Mhigo.
Minfilia: So tell me, were you able to learn aught of Lahabrea?
Minfilia: Planted the knowledge of summoning in impressionable young minds, you say? Precisely the kind of deception the Ascians would employ...
Minfilia: While much of the ills that ail the land can be attributed to the Calamity, some are being brought about by a malign will.
Minfilia: We must needs delve deeper into this, while things remain quiet on the primal front.
Tataru: All work and no play make Minfilia a dull Scion.
Minfilia: Hm? Did you say something?
Tataru: N-Nothing, my lady!
Minfilia: Ahem. Mayhap we ought to rest awhile before speaking further of the investigation.


Lv. 27        Terror at Fallgourd
Minfilia: While you were tending to business in Thanalan, some new information arrived courtesy of our friends the sylphs.
Minfilia: An individual fitting Lahabrea's description has been sighted in the North Shroud. This sighting comes in the wake of a series of mysterious deaths in the selfsame area. My instincts tell me that our man is involved.
Minfilia: I would have you continue your investigation where you left off. Twelve willing, we will pick up Lahabrea's trail once more.
Minfilia: Noraxia can furnish you with the details. Pray speak with her, and take it from there. As always, be careful out there, Coral.


Noraxia: Walking one is to investigate sinister one? Then heed well this one's words.
Noraxia: This one is friends with a walking one in the Ashcrown Consortium. According to friendly one, a digging one named Medrod had an encounter with a scary masked one. This masked one is most certainly sinister one!
Noraxia: Walking one should go and speak with digging one Medrod. Digging one is to be found at Fallgourd Float in the North Shroud.




Medrod: P-Please leave me be... I'm not long for this world...
Medrod: I...I looked death in the face... 'Tis only a matter of time before he comes for me, just like he came for that poor woman...
Aideen: You wanted words with Medrod? Well, as you can see, that might be...tricky. He's been this way near a fortnight. If you need him to make sense in a hurry, might be as I can give you some advice. Though he looks a man grown, Medrod's still a little boy on the inside.
Aideen: You might try feeding him a serving of lentils & chestnuts, his mother's speciality. Stuff should be easy enough to find in Gridania. Oh, and a few soothing words wouldn't go astray either. Nothing like Mummy's cooking and her expert ministrations for a skinned knee, as it were.
Medrod: It was horrible...a waking nightmare... Cannot unsee... Oh, gods, what have I done to deserve this? MUMMYYY! <sob>


Medrod: <gasp> You...you found it! This is my favoritest dish in the whole world! Mum made this for me whenever I felt glum, and it never failed to make me forget my─ Wait a minute! You're trying to make me tell you...tell you...about that, aren't you!? No... Too horrible...
Medrod: ...Y-You're right. It's not as bad as it seems. I saw something terrible, that's true, but that hardly means I'm going to suffer the same fate. Thanks to you, I can think straight again. I believe I can even recount what I saw without losing it.
Medrod: It was just another ordinary day. I was headed back to the Float when I noticed a suspicious character in the distance─a masked man garbed head to toe in black. He had a hideous fiend in tow, a winged creature that was all eyeball and jagged teeth. Taken by curiosity, I crept as near as I dared...
Medrod: ...To see the corpse of a woman! One glimpse was enough to tell me that she'd died a gruesome death!
Medrod: In that instant, I knew right away that the masked man was a minion of Thal, come to claim her soul for his realm.
Medrod: What!? You're investigating this same masked man!?
Aideen: If that's the case, we'll help you in whatever way we can!
Ivaurault: Aye, anything to ensure that we won't have to suffer Medrod's hysteria ever again.
Medrod: All right, teamwork! That's what I wanted to—wait, I haven't been that bad, have I...? At any rate, I'm all for helping this adventurer. It's the least I can do to repay him for bringing me lentils & chestnuts!




Lv.28        Seeing Eye to Winged Eye
Ivaurault: There is something you should know. I have been keeping this to myself, lest I worsen Medrod's paranoia, but I, too, have seen the winged eyeball.
Ivaurault: I cannot say whether it was coincidence, but my sighting took place precisely the same time as Medrod's. I was heading home after a day of digging when a shadow fell over me.
Ivaurault: Looking up, I found myself locked in a gaze with a giant eyeball. I let out a scream at the top of my lungs and ran without once looking back. This happened at the rocky area west of here, in case you had a mind to investigate.


Ivaurault: A monstrous banemite appeared...and you slew it!? That creature had long been a scourge upon the folk of Fallgourd!
Ivaurault: Intentional or no, you have done us a great service. You have my gratitude!
Ivaurault: ...But this does make me wonder, was it truly a winged eyeball I saw? Or merely a trick of light combined with blind panic?






Lv.28        Ziz Is So Ridiculous
Aideen: So, here's what I know about the deaths. All the victims were found with their faces torn to shreds.
Aideen: Among the local fauna, only the scalekin known as ziz could inflict such wounds. That's why some folk are pointing the finger at them.
Aideen: I somehow doubt that the answer's that simple, but for the sake of thoroughness, we should look into it. Why don't you put down, say, six of the creatures, and see if you can find any proof connecting them to the deaths?


Aideen: You've already seen to the ziz? Good work, adventurer! So, were you able to find aught to suggest that the creatures are our culprits?
Aideen: ...Nothing? Truth be told, even if there were proof, I wouldn't know what it looked like. Aaanyway, I believe we can safely strike ziz from our list of suspects. Which leaves us with...the masked man and his winged eyeball!


Lv. 28        Rock of Rancor
Aideen: There's something else I heard about the deaths. It appears all the victims have been comely maidens. I'd better watch myself, eh!? Heh heh heh!
Aideen: <sigh> Unseemly japes aside, there's a rumor been going around. There's some as whisper that, after each victim died, her rancor went into the great big rock southwest of here, causing it to flash and moan.
Aideen: This bears investigating, I reckon. I'm going to give you a firesand stick to blow off a piece of that crag. The stick doesn't come with a fuse or anything, so you'll have to throw the thing. Once you've torn the rock a new one, bring back some of the fragments, and I'll give them a gander.






Aideen: Most folk are too scared to go within a hundred yalms of the Rock of Rancor─aye, it has a name. But what's a few vengeful spirits to a dauntless adventurer like you, eh?
Aideen: ...Huh? Why, these are just your garden-variety crystals! 'Tis a bit hard to tell beneath all the dirt and grime, but they're definitely lightning-aspected.
Aideen: I almost hate to say it, but that explains the flashing and moaning. Nothing to do with the masked stranger. Looks like I've gone and wasted both your time and a perfectly good firesand stick. Oh, well...








Lv. 28        Power of Deduction
Medrod: <sigh> There've been no promising leads in the murders. I can scarce get a wink of sleep, knowing that the killer is still at large.
Medrod: Judging by your furrowed brows, I take it this sorry business troubles you as much as it does me.
Ivaurault: I had been pondering my encounter. I was uncertain for a time, but there can be no doubt: it was a winged eyeball that I witnessed. It's implausible that I could have mistaken so distinct a creature for a banemite.
Medrod: But you and I were malms apart. How could we have both seen it at precisely the same time?
Medrod: What's more, our adventurer friend here had a run-in with the banemite at the very spot you claimed to see that fiendish eyeball. Isn't that right?
Ivaurault: There must be an explanation! I know I saw an eyeball with wings─I would wager an apple tart on it!
Aideen: Oooh, he's serious. But listen, mayhap it's not as mysterious as we're making it out to be. There's no reason why there couldn't be—
Aideen: <gasp> Gods, of course... There must be more than one of the buggers! Ugh, it's so obvious. But then that means...since there have been repeated sightings of these fiends...then there must be even more victims as yet undiscovered...
All: <gulp>
Medrod: I-I do believe we're out of our depth. We ought to leave the rest to the expert.
Aideen: Y-Yes, we're just civilians, after all. Good luck, adventurer. It was a pleasure knowing you!
Ivaurault: While I burn to know the truth, some things are best left unknown. Lest you have forgotten, it was at the rocky area to the west that I had my encounter.
Ivaurault: Should you discover aught of note, you will want to alert the authorities. There is a guardhouse nearby. The Twin Adders there should be pleased for any information that pertains to the security of the region.


Aethelmaer: Greetings, adventurer. Is there aught I might assist you with?
Aethelmaer: Gods be good, not again...
Aethelmaer: No matter how many bodies I see, I cannot seem to get used to the horrid sight. Poor woman...
Aethelmaer: Identical deaths have been reported in the Central Shroud. While the masked stranger you seek does not seem to feature in any, sightings of the winged eyeball are common enough. The creature appears to be moving the bodies, but to what end, none can say.
Aethelmaer: The victims have all been young women. All are found with their faces mutilated beyond recognition. It's been difficult to identify them, so as to notify their next of─
Aethelmaer: Hm? This button, engraved with a lily motif... The very same object was found upon another victim. A family sigil, or that of an organization, perhaps?
Aethelmaer: Either way, I dare to hope that this find will prove pivotal in solving the murders.


Lv. 28        Secret of the White Lily


Aethelmaer: I would have you hold on to the lily button. You will need it to continue your investigation.
Aethelmaer: While it isn't standard procedure to entrust key evidence to individuals, you have proven yourself reliable and resourceful in this matter. I see no reason why you shouldn't carry on your work.
Aethelmaer: If I might make a suggestion, you may wish to take the button to Gridania and have it examined by Miounne. Mayhap someone in her vast network of contacts can shed light upon its sigil.


Mother Miounne: Good evening to you, Coral. By your grim expression, I suspect you aren't here for scones and herb tea.
Mother Miounne: Well, isn't this a lovely little button. The engraving is quite exquisite─artisan levels of quality, I would say. Where did you say you found this? ...On a dead body? Lovely.
Mother Miounne: Anyway, I'm afraid I do not recognize the lily sigil. You will have to find the answer the old-fashioned way─by asking around. You could do worse than beginning with Bernadette, over by the Aetheryte Plaza. She has a sharp pair of eyes, that one.
Bernadette: Need help tracking down the owner of a button? That's certainly not a request I receive on a regular basis. Well, go on, then─show me what you have.
Bernadette: Hmmm... Seems to be some manner of decorative button, reminiscent of those worn by the families of old, though I cannot claim to know its sigil. However, I can say with certainty that the white lily is a recurring theme in Gridanian culture.
Bernadette: Alas, I do not know who would make a personal sigil of it. If there is a soul in Gridania who does, it would be Ceinguled over at the Lancers' Guild. The woman makes a point of knowing all the citizens on a forename basis.


Ceinguled over at the Lancers' Guild. The woman makes a point of knowing all the citizens on a forename basis.
Ceinguled: Bernadette believes that I can help you? Well, that is a rather bold assumption to make. I will try to assist, never you fear, but whether aught comes of it is another matter. Now, then, what do you require of me?
Ceinguled: Fascinating... Work of this quality is rarely seen in the hands of ordinary Gridanians. The owner of this button is most certainly well-to-do. You may wish to take your search to the Gentrys Ward, northwest of here.
Ceinguled: Wait. A memory comes to me. Of late, there has been a man who is perpetually seated at the bench by the ward's entrance. His name is Ursandel, and I distinctly recall seeing a markedly similar button upon the breast of his jacket. I daresay he can tell you a thing or two about it.
Ursandel: I do not believe we are acquainted. Pray leave me to my thoughts.
Ursandel: <gasp> The sigil of the Dartancours family! How...how is it that you came to be in possession of this button?
Ursandel: ...From the body of a murdered woman? H-Her face...was it marred in any way?
Ursandel: I had feared as much... <sigh> I can no longer feign ignorance. I shall reveal to you the truth of the deaths, but on one condition: you promise to put an end to my lady's madness and free her from her torment.




Lv. 28        Skeletons in Her Closet
Ursandel: I was once a manservant in the employ of one of the oldest and proudest families in Gridania─the Dartancours. During that time, I had the honor of waiting upon Lady Amandine, mistress of the household. Fair as summer was she, and possessed of a heart befitting her radiance.
Ursandel: Alas, the Calamity wrought a great change in her. Though my lady escaped with her life, death may well have been a kinder fate. Never will I forget the day her bandages were removed, and she beheld her disfigured face for the first time. At that moment, the kindly woman I knew ceased to be.
Ursandel: Unable to bear the thought of being seen, my lady sequestered herself within her chambers and refused all company. This continued for many uneasy moons, until one day, without warning, she began receiving queer guests. None among us knew whence they came, these masked men, but my lady believed that they would help her to regain that which she had lost. So began the “rites of rejuvenation.”
Ursandel: These rituals seemed innocent enough in the beginning, but grew ever more grotesque as time went by. Eventually, there came a 








day when my lady bound one of her handmaidens to her bed, and...and proceeded to mutilate the poor girl's face. Suffice it to say, she did not survive the ordeal. It fell to me to dispose of her body.
Ursandel: I performed the dreadful task as bade, obedient servant that I was, but when the time came to return to the house, my legs refused to move. I knew then that I could not go back to that place, not after the nightmare I had witnessed. So it was that I left Haukke Manor, my home for nigh on half a century.
Ursandel: Long did I weep for the girl who was slain, and longer still for the woman that Lady Amandine had been. Yet one cannot weep forever, and I endeavored to put the matter behind me. Indeed, I had resolved never to speak of my experience...until you appeared before me.
Ursandel: My lady's madness must be ended, lest more innocent lives be lost. Lay her tormented soul to rest, as you swore to me you would. She awaits you at Haukke Manor, on the western edge of the Central Shroud. Go now. Go and do what must be done.


[Within the manor]]
???: Darkness has taken root within these halls...
???: ...Sprung from the most unlikely of seeds.
???: One cannot help but admire the irrepressible spirit that quickened it to life.
Ascian of the Twelfth Staff: It is a pleasure to meet you at last, adventurer. You are every bit as intriguing as our master gave us to believe.
Ascian of the Twelfth Sword: It is no ordinary mortal who can acquire one Crystal of Light...much less three.
Ascian of the Twelfth Sword: The Crystals make you strong, and it is to that strength that the Light is drawn.
Ascian of the Twelfth Staff: Hydaelyn chose well.
Ascian of the Twelfth Sword: ...A pity that your existence is irreconcilable with our own. We cannot well allow you to continue upon your present course.
Ascian of the Twelfth Staff: Alas, we came here not to play, but to take the measure of your strength for Master Lahabrea. That task now accomplished, we take our leave of you.
Ascian of the Twelfth Sword: Fare you well, Bringer of Light.


Ursandel: You are returned! What sights awaited you within the manor? What has become of Lady Amandine? You must tell me all!
Ursandel: ...So she went so far as to consort with devils. Would that I could have done more to prevent her fall. May she finally find peace in the beyond.
Ursandel: I know not whether the masked men you encountered are the same pair that first led my lady astray, but it is plain that they are of the same vile brood. Should the chance ever present itself, promise me that you will visit upon them tenfold the woe they have brought upon others.
Ursandel: But who am I to speak of punishment? By my silence, I allowed I know not how many innocent young women to die in unspeakable circumstances... It matters not wherefore─through misplaced loyalty, cowardice, or both, I am an abettor to a gross crime. I will surrender myself to the authorities and accept whatever punishment they deem just. I only pray that the gods will have mercy on my soul.


Minfilia: Welcome back, Coral. Full glad am I to see you safely returned. Tell me, how fared you on your sojourn in the Twelveswood?
Minfilia: ...Two of Lahabrea's minions? ...And they sought to measure your strength...by their own admission?
Minfilia: The devils taunt us... It is beyond doubt, then─the Ascians have begun to move in earnest. Would that we knew to what end.
Minfilia: Yet I will not bemoan our plight. Thanks to your tireless efforts, we are at least aware of the encroaching darkness.
Minfilia: Alas, we can only do so much. It is clear to me now that we Scions are too few to protect the realm against this threat unaided.
Minfilia: We must needs alert the three nations to the presence of this elusive enemy, and recommend that they heighten their vigil.
Minfilia: There is no shortage of misery in the world that the Ascians might exploit. We have an arduous struggle ahead of us.
Minfilia: Yet come what may, we must not allow ourselves to become lost to hope, for that is precisely what the enemy desires.
Minfilia: We have gleaned all we can from the information available to us. Let us set this investigation aside for the present.
Minfilia: Another matter has arisen that requires your attention. Let me know when you are ready to be briefed, and I will summon the others.


Lv. 30        Wrath of the Titan
Minfilia: The Maelstrom requests our assistance.
Y'shtola: Concerning the kobolds they sent such copious notes on, I presume?
Minfilia: Yes, and no. It has more to do with their findings, which portend a peril far greater than any beast tribe.
Y'shtola: What sort of peril?
Minfilia: The worst kind. A tribe of kobolds in the vicinity of Limsa Lominsa has reawakened Titan.
Minfilia: Our task will be to slay the primal. The Maelstrom have sworn support for the endeavor.
Minfilia: They are no strangers to the havoc kobolds can wreak.
Y'shtola: Years before the Grand Company's reformation, two primals, Leviathan and Titan, chanced to converge upon the seawall, wreaking untold devastation.
Y'shtola: There but for the grace of the Navigator were the mercenaries Merlwyb hired able to fend them off.
Y'shtola: Yet it did not take long for the beast tribes to regroup, and they summoned their primals once more.
Minfilia: Thankfully, their second coming was decidedly short-lived─but that is beside the point.
Minfilia: So long as tormented souls will them to exist, the realm will never be rid of primals.
Y'shtola: The Maelstrom has kept a watchful eye upon the beast tribes─and the kobolds in particular─ever since.
Y'shtola: Which brings us to the matter at hand.
Minfilia: Unlike Ifrit, we know scarcely anything of Titan.
Minfilia: Unfortunately, the only force known to have bested him─the modestly named “Company of Heroes”─disbanded five years since, and mercenaries are not in the habit of keeping chronicles.
Y'shtola: Expect the worst.
Y'shtola: The Maelstrom's help is of course appreciated, but even if we had their whole armada at our disposal, we could still find ourselves overmatched.
Y'shtola: A pity the kobolds lack the gentle sensibilities of the sylphs. A peaceful resolution would be more than welcome.
Y'shtola: The Echo will not avail you this time, I fear. If you are to survive, your steel must needs speak for you.
Y'shtola: No one would think you a coward were you to decline.
Minfilia: So you will accept?
Minfilia: Thank you.
Thancred: We can't very well send him to Limsa Lominsa without Y'shtola, can we, Minfilia?
Minfilia: May I ask that of you, Y'shtola?
Y'shtola: I never thought it in question.
Minfilia: Ever reliable.
Minfilia: Very well. We will spare no effort to win victory.
Minfilia: You may count on the full support of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Minfilia: And all not afield will aid the fight from afar.
Minfilia: Thancred, Yda, go to the Grand Companies. Tell them of our plight and solicit their support.
Minfilia: Urianger, send word to the Students of Baldesion─and Alphinaud, if you would.
Minfilia: Papalymo, compile all the information we have on Titan, little though it may be.
Minfilia: You'll be apprised of the tactical situation when you reach the Sailor's Ward.
Minfilia: Provision yourself for the journey. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.




[NPC Interraction]
Dariustel: “No matter one's past transgressions, all who have seen the dream are welcome.” Even men such as we.
Dariustel: I have heard offers such as these before. All were naught more than bait for the hangman's noose.
Bremondt: Looks like the Antecedent's found herself a good crop of aspirin' heroes. Aye, I reckon Eorzea'll be alright as long as these fine folk are around to protect her.
Noraxia: This one has finally figured out a way to make walking ones be quiet. What does friendly one think? This one is very convincing, yes?
Papalymo: Yda is on her way to Gridania to request aid of the Twin Adders. In the meantime, we must learn all we can of the primal Titan.
Papalymo: Literature may yield us the odd morsel of useful information, but there is no surer way than to seek the former members of the Company of Heroes.
Haribehrt: With this many people here, we need a culinarian of our own. We can't subsist on rations and preserved foodstuffs forever.
Una Tayuun: The Waking Sands sure is busy these days. Fresh-faced 'ventures eager t' make their mark, famous folk like you runnin' off t' face the bleedin' Lord o' Crags...
Una Tayuun: Maybe it's time for me an' the boys to retire. 'Venturin's a dangerous callin', after all─be a little slow, be a little late, just once, an' that's that.
Liavinne: You'll not believe it, but I've been summoned by Lady Minfilia! Do you suppose that she has an assignment for me?
Liavinne: What I would not give to have something to fight for again! And yet, I must not be overeager...
A'aba Tia: Congratulate the boy, Coral! Chosen by the Antecedent as the sylph's bodyguard! What an honor!
A'aba Tia: ('Course, this means his dusty rags'll no longer suffice. I say we get the boy a shiny new suit of silver armor, the kind the Sultansworn wear. We split the cost evenly and surprise him. Not bad, eh?)
Arenvald: Coral, have you heard!? I have been chosen to serve as Noraxia's bodyguard. There have been increasing reports of imperial activity in Thanalan, and so the Antecedent insists that our guest be escorted whenever venturing outside.
Arenvald: I know how hard you of all people worked to endear us to the sylphs. I swear to you that I will guard our honored guest with my life, and not allow your efforts to come to naught.
Aulie: Guarding Noraxia is a prestigious duty indeed. Arenvald is right to be excited.
Aulie: (But he has never crossed swords with a Garlean before. I worry what will happen if he is forced to confront his father's countrymen.)
Biggs: If there's anything we can do to help, no matter how small, just ask. Broken carriage axle, cracked barrel─hells, even a leaky bucket. Say the word and we'll fix it.
Wedge: I don't want to believe that Master Garlond is dead, but the chief wasn't the type to cut and run off. He would've gone to Carteneau. He would've been there when Dalamud fell. Which means...
Urianger: As the primals fall, so do our spirits soar. Though mine aid be but modest, I nonetheless am heartened in my duties.
Clive: I am told you are one of our finest, Coral. I suspect we will see much more of each other in future.


R'ashaht Rhiki: Hail, adventurer, and welcome to Maelstrom Command. If you wish to know more about enlisting, speak with the personnel officer.
R'ashaht Rhiki: Unless...you are the guest we were told to expect? Ah...ha. Ahem. Forgive me, sir.
R'ashaht Rhiki: To business, then. It is as we told the Antecedent. The kobolds have once again summoned Titan.
R'ashaht Rhiki: A little over a moon ago, we began to observe the beastmen moving south in increasing numbers from O'Ghomoro.
R'ashaht Rhiki: Our scouts subsequently confirmed the object of their aggression─
Merlwyb: Crystals. Fodder for their fell primal.
Merlwyb: Thank you, High Commander. You may leave the rest to me.
Word has spread of your accomplishments, Coral. On behalf of Limsa Lominsa, I thank you for heeding our call.
Y'shtola: Forgive the lack of forewarning, High Commander. The Admiral wished to address Coral personally.
Merlwyb: We are no strangers to conflict. Long have the Sahagin and the kobolds plagued our people─nor is this the first time we have had to address a primal threat.
Merlwyb: In the past, when Titan rose to threaten the peace, it was to the Company of Heroes we turned.
Merlwyb: But they are long disbanded, and we must look to other brave souls blessed with the strength to face this foe.
Merlwyb: So it is that we turn now to the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, confident in the belief that you are Limsa's best hope.
Y'shtola: I hope you are right. Yet the situation is far from simple. The kobolds are not prone to unprovoked aggression. Did not the thalassocracy make a pact with the beastmen that each would keep to their own lands, and that no blood would be shed?
Y'shtola: ...And was it not the Lominsans who violated this agreement, dissatisfied with their lot? Shall we then condemn the beastmen for defending their homes?
Y'shtola: Even a pirate must one day reap what she has sown.
R'ashaht Rhiki: I would advise you to choose your words with greater care, Lady Y'shtola!
Merlwyb: Stand down, High Commander. She has the right of it.
Merlwyb: And the wrong is mine. Freely do I claim it. Yet it makes little difference. Remorse will not shield us from Titan's wrath.
...Or would you have us fall upon our swords?
Y'shtola: My apologies, Admiral. The safety and security of Limsa Lominsa's citizenry are, of course, of paramount concern.
Merlwyb: Already, we have observed disruptions in the flow of aether further inland. The effects will be felt here in the city ere long.
Merlwyb: I ask much of you, I know, but the need is great. Can I count on your help, Coral?
Merlwyb: You have my thanks, along with the full support of the Maelstrom. I await good tidings.
Y'shtola: That the kobolds should summon Titan demonstrates they are no longer amenable to negotiation.
Y'shtola: This being the case, we must needs prepare for conflict. Before we meet Titan in the field, however, it would be wise to learn all we can of our foe. And I can think of no better source of information than the mercenaries who defeated him once before.
R'ashaht Rhiki: The Company of Heroes may be no more, but several of its former members still live. It is said that one of them is employed at the Grey Fleet mills in lower La Noscea.
Y'shtola: Quite why a mercenary should choose to become a miller, I do not know. When you find him, mayhap you could ask him for me. I, meanwhile, shall seek his fellows.




Y'shtola: The Company of Heroes is the most celebrated mercenary band in the history of Eorzea. Even so, I must admit I have never before met one of their members face-to-face.
Y'shtola: I imagined that a warrior who had toppled both Titan and Leviathan would seek to bask in a lifetime of fame and glory...yet he seems to have settled in a place distinctly bereft of adoring crowds.
Trachtoum: Lay down yer burdens, son,♪
Come drain a pint with me,♪
We'll have a grand ol' time,♪
Find ye a lass or three...♪
Trachtoum: Ye gonna say somethin', 'venturer, or just keep starin'?
Eh? Ye want to know about the Company of Heroes?
Trachtoum: Ahhh hells... Price of bleedin' fame... Can't a miller mill in peace no more!?
Trachtoum: Still, seein' as ye've come all this way, I s'pose it wouldn't hurt to oblige ye. Consider yerself lucky, mate─ol' Trachtoum was the Company's best axeman. Now, what was it ye wanted to know?




Lv. 30        Tales from the Tidus Slayer
Trachtoum: Gah hah hah! So, ye want to hear the tale of how the Company of Heroes bested a primal, do ye?
Trachtoum: Let me guess: ye mean that bastard Tidus, aye?
Trachtoum: Oh, if only ye'd been there to see it!
Trachtoum: 'Twas a mighty struggle, like the legends of old! 
Trachtoum: Me an' the boys fought him for three days an' nights, we did!
Trachtoum: The ground trembled with every step Tidus took, an' when he hit ye, boy, it felt like a cannonball to the gut. Uggghhh! Just like that!
Trachtoum: Oi, what's that look for? I'm a godsdamned hero, I'll have you know! The people 'round here sing me praises! Don't tell me ye only care about learnin' the secret tactics we used to beat ol' Tidus...
Trachtoum: Hmph! Well, too bad, 'cause now I'm not feelin' charitable. If yer so damn desperate, then why don't ye do me a favor an' kill those rats that've made a nest by the windmill just south of here? Aye, do that, then we'll talk!
Trachtoum: Eh? So the beasties are dead, are they? Nice work, 'venturer!
Trachtoum: Saved me the hassle of─ah, never mind.














Lv. 30        Hungry Hungry Goobbues
Trachtoum: ...What? Ye still askin' about how we beat Tidus? I dunno, 'venturer...it was a pretty risky strategy, the kind only a veteran of ten score battles could rely upon.
Trachtoum: I want to teach ye, I truly do! But unless ye prove ye have what it takes to face that fat bastard, I can't in good conscience tell you a damn thing!
Trachtoum: At the very least, ye'd need to be capable of slayin', say, a goobbue...
Trachtoum: Come to think of it, that ain't a bad idea. Them creatures have a taste for the flour milled here, so ye ought to have no trouble findin' one in the vicinity.
Trachtoum: 'Course, I ain't askin' ye to cut one down quick as a skilled axeman like meself!
Trachtoum: Anyroad, why don't ye try headin' due west an' standin' lookout 'case a goobbue comes callin'? Slay it, an' I might consider tellin' ye more about ol' Tidus.


Trachtoum: Eh? You again? Then that goobbue that was harassin' the millers is dead?
Trachtoum: Didn't think ye had it in ye, 'venturer. Still, you took forever an' a day to get the job done. I'm still not sure if I should tell you our secrets...




Lv. 30        The Lominsan Way
Trachtoum: So, uh...as I was sayin', I still don't know if ye've got what it takes to face Tidus. Maybe if ye slew a─
Grey Fleet Miller: Trachtoum? You in here drinking again? If you are, that goobbue had better be dead!
Trachtoum: Oh, it's dead, chief, ye have me word on that! Cleaved the beast's skull in two with me trusty axe, I did!
Grey Fleet Miller: Is that a fact? And what will your friend here say if I ask him?
Trachtoum: H-He'll vouch for me, of course! Ain't that right...friend?
Grey Fleet Miller: Tell me true: was it Trachtoum who slew that goobbue...or was it you?
Trachtoum: Chief! Wh-What are ye sayin'!? It's me, Trachtoum, the finest axeman ever to serve in the Company of Heroes, the legendary mercenaries who slew that bastard Tidus!
Grey Fleet Miller: ...Tidus? Tidus? Who in the seven hells is Tidus!? Some primal you fought in a drink-sodden dream? The Company of Heroes slew Titan, you bloody half-wit!
Trachtoum: Ah. Aye, well...see, Tidus was what me an' the lads used to call him.
Grey Fleet Miller: That's the biggest load of Sahagin shite I've ever heard.
Both of you, outside! We'll learn the truth the Lominsan way!
Grey Fleet Miller: Trachtoum─if you didn't slay that goobbue, you may consider your contract revoked!




[Competition]
Trachtoum Parter of Seas: All right─ye know the rules! First man to smash his boulder will be judged the goobbue slayer!
Trachtoum Parter of Seas: An' don't even think about tryin' to kill me! That's cheatin'!
Grey Fleet Miller: Who picked these boulders!? They're nothing alike!
Ah, the hells with it─let the contest begin!
Trachtoum Parter of Seas: How ye doin', matey? Feelin' a bit stiff, by any chance?
Trachtoum Parter of Seas: Heh heh...only killin's against the rules!
Trachtoum Parter of Seas: Y-Yer still at it!? Bugger me─'tis lucky I've got one of these!
[Trachtoum left a bomb]
15 seconds to self-destruct...
10 seconds to self-destruct...
5 seconds to self-destruct...






Trachtoum: All right, all right, I admit it! I lied about bein' in the Company of Heroes. But I'm beggin' ye, chief─please don't dismiss me! I've learned me lesson, honest I have!
Grey Fleet Miller: Save your blubbering, Trachtoum. <sigh> Gods, I should've known...
Trachtoum: Mercy, please! I didn't want to deceive ye, I swear! It's just that I kept gettin' turned away by all the folk I asked for work, an' I panicked!
Trachtoum: See, the last job I had was at Costa del Sol, an' there was this grizzled marauder everyone treated like royalty. When I heard he was a captain in the Company of Heroes, I finally understood why.
Trachtoum: I-I wasn't bein' serious when I said I was one of 'em! But ye went an' believed me, so I...so I, er...
Trachtoum: L-Look─his name was Wheiskaet, all right!? Wheiskaet! He'll tell ye how to defeat Titus or whatever the hells that thing's name is!
Trachtoum: That's what ye wanted, ain't it!? So come on, then! Tell the chief to forgive me! It's only fair!




Wheiskaet: Pardon? You wish to slay the Lord of Crags?
Y'shtola: We must slay him, Captain. The people of Limsa Lominsa are depending upon us.
Wheiskaet: Hmph. You fancy yourselves heroes, then─just like in the tales?
Y'shtola: Be not so quick to judge. Long have I labored for the well-being of you and yours. And my associate here has bathed in Ifrit's hellfire and lived.
Y'shtola: He is blessed with a power that protects him from primal influence. Thus was he able to lay low the Lord of the Inferno.
Y'shtola: We know full well the risks, and have taken every possible precaution. We lack only the knowledge of how to enter Titan's lair. Pray be so good as to grant us the boon of your wisdom, and we shall be on our way.
Wheiskaet: A man who can't be tempered? Useful...but it will not be enough.
Wheiskaet: It is true that the Company of Heroes fought and felled primals─but each victory was bought with the lifeblood of brave men and women.
Wheiskaet: And Titan was the worst we faced. Aye, we defeated him─in the end─but he took from us some of our very best.
Wheiskaet: Even if you possess the power you claim, I have no reason to believe you will succeed.
Y'shtola: Believe what you will. We mean to try.
Y'shtola: Though our lives be forfeit, we will not abandon Limsa to the wrath of Titan.
Wheiskaet: You are passionate, I'll grant you that...
Wheiskaet: ...And you deserved better than the greeting I gave you. But I will not send you into O'Ghomoro on a whim. To be plain, I do not wish to see you give your lives in vain.
Wheiskaet: At the very least, I must have assurances that you are more than common adventurers.
Wheiskaet: I oversee security for Master Gegeruju's estates. Perhaps you can demonstrate your abilities by attending to one of our─
Y'shtola: Ye gods, man─have you heard nothing I have said? We have not the time to perform trivial tasks. The enemy is at the gates!
Wheiskaet: Do you imagine words can sway me, girl?
Wheiskaet: If you dislike my conditions, then you are welcome to find your own way into O'Ghomoro.
Y'shtola: <sigh> Though it pains me to admit it, I fear we have no choice but to acquiesce to the man's demands.
Y'shtola: Yet much remains to be done if we are to best Titan. Forgive me, but I must ask you to undertake this task alone. I will use the time to see to the remaining preparations.
Wheiskaet: Leaving the dirty work to others, are we? Heh, very well.
Y'shtola: Pray do whatever the good captain bids...however trifling. Remember: the fate of Limsa Lominsa hangs in the balance.




Lv. 30        Nix That
Wheiskaet: Master Gegeruju's requests can be more demanding than you realize. Before I set you to your true task, I would like to verify that this won't be a waste of my time.
Wheiskaet: A nix has recently been seen prowling the beach to the east. As you can imagine, my master does not want large slimy creatures anywhere near his lands.
Wheiskaet: The beast is cunning, but you should have no difficulty luring it out with herring.
Wheiskaet: Slay the nix and return to me. Oh, and don't forget to bring me a leg as proof of the kill.




Wheiskaet: Well? Did you deal with the nix?
Wheiskaet: Lest you think me overly cautious for testing you in this way, you should know that we had an incident not long ago. A foolish young employee was dismissed for lying about his past. He claimed to have served in the Company of Heroes, but I knew for a fact he did not.
Wheiskaet: Anyway, now that the pointless busywork is finished, I shall give you a challenge as befits your talents.


Lv. 30        A Modest Proposal
Wheiskaet: Two highly distinguished individuals are scheduled to visit Costa del Sol in the near future, and Master Gegeruju wishes to welcome them with an elaborate banquet.
Wheiskaet: But while money is no object, not everything Master Gegeruju desires can be so easily purchased.
Wheiskaet: It is to be an extremely exotic feast. And so, Coral, your mission is to seek out and obtain the rare ingredients our chef requires.
Wheiskaet: It will be a long and arduous journey, but you need not toil alone. Many of the mercenaries who once served under my command still live, and they will guide you in your quest. For the first ingredient, I would have you travel to the South Shroud and speak with Landenel at Camp Tranquil.
Wheiskaet: ...What? Do you mean to tell me that you cannot afford to waste time, as your associate did?
Wheiskaet: Adventurer, if you have not the endurance to complete this mission, how do you expect me to believe you can outlast the Lord of Crags? Either do it or don't─I have work to do.


Landenel: Do you require assistance, adventurer?
Landenel: ...So this is the one who would challenge Titan. I've been expecting you, Coral.
Landenel: The ingredient you seek is the egg of a giant adamantoise.
Landenel: The method of acquisition should be obvious─you steal it from the beast's nest, of course. Simple in theory, but difficult in execution. Most who try die in the attempt.
Landenel: Will I help you get it? Hah, you amuse me. I will not jeopardize my position by openly assisting you. From me you will receive only information. What you do with it is your choice.


Lv. 30        The Penitent Man
Landenel: Let me be clear: this business between you, me, and the captain must remain a secret.
Landenel: See, I don't regret my time spent with the Company in the slightest. Traveling the world, meeting interesting people, killing them─it was all jolly good fun.
Landenel: Alas, Gridanians are, by and large, an unforgiving lot─Detoh here being a rare exception.
Landenel: I've had to go to great lengths to ensure that I am seen as a model citizen, with no taste for drinking, whoring, gambling, and all those other activities I so dearly miss.
Landenel: So understand that if you ruin my little charade by wagging your tongue, I'll fashion a noose with your entrails and hang you from the nearest heavenspillar.
Landenel: Now then, where were we...ah, yes, the egg. The first thing you must do is deal with the sentries patrolling the adamantoise breeding grounds. Poaching is illegal in Gridania, in case you were unaware.
Landenel: A shame we have so few Wailers to spare─especially with brownie brushes almost in season. Matron forfend if agaric flies claim the crop before we receive additional sentries...
Landenel: Aye, we will also soon need barrels of stingbrew to weaken and ward off the pests.
Landenel: But if any of the vilekin were found near the shrooms before we can take preventative measures, we would be forced to shift our patrols immediately...
Landenel: You will, of course, notify me if you encounter any agaric flies in the vicinity of the Lower Paths, yes?


Landenel: I pray this year's crop of brownie brushes comes late...
Landenel: Oh my, is this a brownie brush? And you say you slew a whole swarm of agaric flies!?
Landenel: Matron's teats, we cannot wait for reinforcements! We must do something!


Lv. 30        Changing of the Guard
Landenel: This agaric fly infestation requires our full attention. I thank you for bringing it to my attention, adventurer.
Landenel: If I may impose upon your kindness further, I would ask you to inform my subordinates of this dire development.
Landenel: I have three Wailers currently standing guard in Rootslake. Inform each man that they are to proceed to the Lower Paths and search for agaric fly swarms until further notice.


Honest Wood Wailer: Agaric flies? In the Lower Paths? Then I mustn't delay! Thank you for relaying Captain Landenel's orders, adventurer!
Brazen Wood Wailer: A message from the captain?
Damn, those vilekin are a danger to travelers on the road. I will depart immediately.
Stodgy Wood Wailer: What's that? Everyone is to search the Lower Paths for agaric flies? Hmmm...I know we haven't had to deal with poachers recently, but I cannot help but worry that they will strike in our absence. <sigh> But an order is an order.
Landenel: ...I take it you have informed my men, then? Excellent work, Coral.
Landenel: However, I cannot keep the roosters distracted for too long. If you wish to pillage the hen house, you must do so now.


Lv.30        Trial by Turtle
Landenel: Well, what are you waiting for? There's a perfectly good adamantoise egg in a nest to the east of here, just ripe for the taking.
Landenel: Not that I expect you to live long enough to claim it! The mother never strays far from the child, and you will surely be attacked the moment you lay hands upon the egg.
Landenel: ...There will be other heroes, Coral. You do not need to challenge Titan. Abandon your quest, or your corpse will rot in this swamp.


Landenel: I thought you might have the good sense to leave this place. By your continued presense, I take it you intend to persevere to the bitter end?
Landenel: Ahahaha! Such bravery, such recklessness! That will serve you well against Titan.
Landenel: Leave the egg with me─I'll see that it gets to the captain. You should make haste to southern Thanalan.
Landenel: In Forgotten Springs, you will find a man named U'odh Nunh. He will be your next guide. Safe travels, Coral.


U'odh Nunh: State your business, adventurerrr.
<snort> Hah hah hah! So this is the one Wheiskaet sends me.
U'odh Nunh: I haven't the foggiest what he sees in you─and until I do, you will rrreceive no aid from me.


Lv. 31        The Drake Exception


U'odh Nunh: Perrrsistent bugger. Very well, let's have a look at you.
U'odh Nunh: ...You've seen your share of battle, there's no mistaking that. And you did manage to obtain that adamantoise egg. However, that was naught more than a display of brrrute force and blind courage.
U'odh Nunh: The nunh I once fought also believed that his strrrength would save him. He was wrong, and now I am nunh.
U'odh Nunh: Many years ago, I joined the Company of Heroes to hone my skills, instead of challenging my predecessor before I was ready. Even when I was young, I understood that victorrry goes to the patient, the cunning, the pragmatic.
U'odh Nunh: That is why I claimed my position, and it is why I still hold it. And it is why I will not help an unprrroven whelp.
U'odh Nunh: The Children of the Sands do not offer aid to strangers. To do so is a sign of weakness. However, if you were rrrecognized as a skilled hunter in your own right, it would be permissible to assist you.
U'odh Nunh: A child who wishes to become a hunterrr must collect the blood of seven sundrakes. You are not a child, so you may find this to be easy. But you are not of the U tribe, so perhaps not.
U'odh Nunh: I will consider your rrrequest once you have brought me the blood, and not a moment sooner.




U'odh Nunh: I will not help an unproven whelp. Brrring me the blood, or we have nothing to discuss.
U'odh Nunh: You are a hunterrr of beasts. This much I now know to be true.
U'odh Nunh: But Titan is no mere beast. If you mean to hunt a god, you must prove much more to me.


Lv. 31        The Perfect Prey
U'odh Nunh: Hunting a beast is a simple affair. You merely stalk, pursue, and slay. Hunting a beastman, however, is a farrr more complex endeavor.
U'odh Nunh: Across the desert to the east lies an Amalj'aa encampment. There dwells a warrior renowned both for his strrrength and his guile. To even face this Amalj'aa in battle, you must first find a way to lure him away from the encampment.
U'odh Nunh: This will be your test: to drrraw out and defeat the veteran. For this, I will offer you no advice─only this worn spear.
U'odh Nunh: Why, you ask? You will have to solve that rrriddle yourself. Now go─slay this old warrior and bring to me his necklace.
U'odh Nunh: Tell me, adventurerrr: is our old nemesis dead?
U'odh Nunh: 'Tis a fine necklace, as befits a veteran of countless battles. It will make an excellent trophy.
U'odh Nunh: The spear? It belonged to one of his brrrothers. I knew when he spied it from afar, he would be unable to rrresist venturing outside the encampment to see for himself.
U'odh Nunh: Did you discern my intent, or was it dumb luck, I wonder...
U'odh Nunh: Heh heh heh! Either way, you imprrress me, adventurer! I shall tell you of the ingredient you seek.




Lv. 31        When the Worm Turns
U'odh Nunh: A shame we did not meet when I was still with the Company of Heroes. You would have made a fine rrrecruit.
U'odh Nunh: But no point dwelling on what cannot be. You have a Wellwick worm to hunt.
U'odh Nunh: Sandworms slither brrrazenly across the desert dunes, but Wellwick worms are far fewer in number. Rarity brrreeds demand, and so their meat is highly prized as a delicacy.
U'odh Nunh: The only way to catch your quarry is to entice it with something it cannot rrresist.
U'odh Nunh: These worms prrrey on the smaller creatures of the Sagolii. A freshly slaughtered angler carcass would be my choice of bait.
U'odh Nunh: There is an area teeming with anglers to the east. I will mark it upon your map, along with the location where Wellwick worms are most frrrequently sighted.
U'odh Nunh: Be warned─the blood will drive the worm into a feeding frrrenzy. If your skills are lacking, it will devour you as well.


U'odh Nunh: You look well. Have you caught your quarry, then?
U'odh Nunh: Your skills as a hunter rrrival those of our best. I applaud your success, Coral.
U'odh Nunh: The meat will need to be heavily smoked before I ship it to Wheiskaet. Worry not─you have my word that he will rrreceive it in time for the banquet.
U'odh Nunh: You must be eager to obtain the third ingrrredient. I regret to say that I know naught of its location. For the nonce, you should return to Costa del Sol and seek Wheiskaet's counsel.
U'odh Nunh: Ah, but hold a moment. Since you will be meeting the captain again soon, there is something I would like you to deliver to him for me.


Lv. 31        There and Back Again
U'odh Nunh: The captain was always fond of this brandewine. I would be grrrateful if you could deliver it on my behalf.
U'odh Nunh: I was a rrreckless, angry youth when I first joined the Company, and he would have been well within his rights to cast me out. Everything I have I owe to his wisdom and generrrosity.
U'odh Nunh: Aye, Wheiskaet was a firm yet fair teacher, an expert molder of men. And I suspect that is still the case now.
U'odh Nunh: Please give him my rrregards, Coral.


Wheiskaet: Well met, Coral. Landenel and U'odh Nunh both spoke highly of you. What brings you here today?
Wheiskaet: Ahhh, my favorite. I shall have to thank the nunh personally.
Wheiskaet: Now, you have but one ingredient left. Fortunately, you will not have to travel to Aldenard this time to obtain it.


Lv. 32        The Things We Do for Cheese


Wheiskaet: Truth be told, I never intended for you to collect this last ingredient. Brayflox, my old quartermaster, wished to bring it to Costa del Sol himself.
Wheiskaet: However, not long ago, he sent word that there's been some trouble at the Longstop, and that the delivery would be delayed indefinitely. He told me nothing of the incident itself, but I fear the situation may be dire.
Wheiskaet: Though I would like nothing more than to aid him myself, I have no choice but to turn to you and your allies. Make haste to the Hidden Falls docks and speak with Ozun Nazun. He will direct you to Raincatcher Gully, where Brayflox and his people have made their home.


Ozun Nazun: What's the hurry, 'venturer? Eh? Somethin' happen over at the gobbie settlement?
Ozun Nazun: I dunno why yer so eager to help a bunch of beastmen, but go an' talk to the skipper over yonder. She'll ferry ye to Raincatcher Gully.


Brayflox Alltalks: Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Tongueflaps of Wheiskaet be reaching ears of Brayflox. Uplander is come for tastyfresh gobbietreats, yes?
Brayflox Alltalks: Questprize of uplander deep in Longstop. Flighty-beast chased gobbieflock from homes. Gobbieflock needs goodly uplander give safety to Longstop with much hand-lending!


Goblin Pathfinder: Twist gatekey! Open Headgate with much fastness!


Kindly uplander! Gobbieflock needs quick hand-lending!


[Fighting Inferno Dragon]
Brayflox Alltalks: Shkoh! Shkoh! More fastness! More fastness!
Brayflox Alltalks: Shkoh! Brayflox shall see to thunderfoot!
Brayflox Alltalks: Gobbie...boom?






[Upon defeating the beast, Aiatar]
Brayflox is come to give goodly uplander gobbie hand-lending!


There! Thunderclaw is blood and bile!


Othermore deednotch added to gobbiebelt!
Oh, goodly Brayflox!
Oh, mighty Brayflox!
yes, yes! More toungueflaps! More toungueflaps!


Brayflox Alltalks: Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Goodly uplander has thanks of gobbieflock!
Brayflox Alltalks: Flighty-beast was tricksy foe, but uplander outwitted with plansmaking. Uplander has goodly head for battlethink.
Brayflox Alltalks: Brayflox happygives tastyfresh gobbietreats to clever uplander!
Brayflox Alltalks: Cheese is stinkysweet gobbietreat! Specialmake with secret gobbiearts!
Brayflox Alltalks: No party complete without gobbie gouda, Brayflox everysay!




Wheiskaet: <sniff> <sniff> ...I gather you solved Brayflox's little problem?
Wheiskaet: By the gods, that unholy stench! This is─ugh─definitely goblin cheese.
Wheiskaet: Judging from the smell, this should be quite flavorful.
Wheiskaet: Hm? How is it made? Ah...it's best you remain ignorant of such things. I still remember when I learned what kind of milk they use... <shudder>








Lv. 32        What Do You Mean You Forgot the Wine
Wheiskaet: Bravo, Coral. Thanks to you, our guests shall be honored with a marvelous banquet.
Wheiskaet: But what good is an exotic feast without an equally exquisite aperitif?
Wheiskaet: Aye, your work is not yet finished. Before we can discuss Titan, you must first bring us a suitable wine. Speak with Dyrstweitz over yonder─he is overseeing preparations for the banquet, and will tell you what you must do.


Dyrstweitz: Beg your pardon, sir, but I've got my hands full with─ Oh, you're the adventurer sent to pick up the wine! Thank the gods, we've nothing on hand that will meet with Master Gegeruju's approval.
Dyrstweitz: Take this order slip and run along to Wineport. One of Wheiskaet's friends from the old days, Shamani Lohmani, is our supplier.
Dyrstweitz: Who'd thought that a former mercenary would have such refined tastes, eh? Everyone here agrees that he's a natural vintner. If you're lucky, maybe he'll let you have a taste!


Aileen: Looking for work to fund our wine habit, are we?
Aileen: The Adventurers' Guild has assigned me to Wineport so that I might distribute guildleves to the willing and able.
Aileen: Depending on what skills you possess, I may have suitable work for you. Beast culling, crafting, gathering, and so forth.
Aileen: That said, my offer is contingent upon you first demonstrating your capacity to complete a contract.
Aileen: The La Noscean wilderness is fraught with peril, so it behooves me to test your ability to survive in it.
Aileen: While these goobbues are wont to devour anything and everything, they have a fondness for pelican meat.
Aileen: Your task will be to slay a pelican and use its remains to lure out the ravenous goobbues.
Aileen: The area in which the goobbues were last sighted is fairly large, so this may take a fair amount of time. Be warned, however, that other hungry creatures may be drawn to the meat.


Lv. 32        An Offer You Can Refuse
Aileen: Looking for work to fund our wine habit, are we?
Aileen: The Adventurers' Guild has assigned me to Wineport so that I might distribute guildleves to the willing and able.
Aileen: Depending on what skills you possess, I may have suitable work for you. Beast culling, crafting, gathering, and so forth.
Aileen: That said, my offer is contingent upon you first demonstrating your capacity to complete a contract.
Aileen: The La Noscean wilderness is fraught with peril, so it behooves me to test your ability to survive in it.
Aileen: While these goobbues are wont to devour anything and everything, they have a fondness for pelican meat.
Aileen: Your task will be to slay a pelican and use its remains to lure out the ravenous goobbues.
Aileen: The area in which the goobbues were last sighted is fairly large, so this may take a fair amount of time. Be warned, however, that other hungry creatures may be drawn to the meat.


Byrglaent: What rank amateur bottled this wine? The impurities have rendered it nigh undrinkable. Dismissal is too good for the man responsible─he should be made to drink every drop of his polluted swill!
Byrglaent: What is it? I am in the middle of an important discussion, and I do not care for interruptions.
Hm? That neophyte vintner bid you speak with me? Hah!
Byrglaent: Neither you nor your friend has the palate to appreciate the subtle qualities of my private stock.
Byrglaent: I would sooner serve you goobbue urine than sell you my worst vintage. Begone from my sight.


Shamani Lohmani: I take it he said no?
...Really, in those words? Hm, well, I cannot say that I am surprised.
Shamani Lohmani: While there's no denying his passion and skill, the Wine Baron of Limsa Lominsa is not a man known for his tact.
Shamani Lohmani: Very well. We shall have to take an alternative approach.




Lv. 32        It Won’t Work
Shamani Lohmani: There is a chance, however small, that another resident of Wineport can furnish us with a suitable wine. In fact, had you come several years ago, I guarantee this would not be a problem.
Shamani Lohmani: Alas, the quality of our product has declined significantly in recent years. The only breeds cultivated these days are common lowland vines. Which isn't to say that their grapes are of poor quality─only that we have known better.
Shamani Lohmani: Long ago, the vignerons of Wineport crossbred several species, and produced a grape-bearing vine of never-before-seen quality.
Shamani Lohmani: Bacchus grapes were once the pride of this town, as they were used to produce vintages which surpassed all others.
Shamani Lohmani: This includes the most aromatic, the most complex, the most flavorful of all wines─aye, the legendary Bacchus wines were born right here in Wineport!
Shamani Lohmani: Ahem. Pardon my enthusiasm. You see, I once had the privilege to sample that particular wine.
Shamani Lohmani: It was an otherworldly experience. In that moment, I felt as though I had tasted the nectar of the gods themselves. I transcended my mortal flesh, and was one with all creation.
Shamani Lohmani: <sigh> But, as is all too often said, the Calamity changed that. The Bacchus vineyards were completely destroyed, along with much of the existing stock of Bacchus wine. What little remains is closely guarded by its owners, for it can no longer be made.
Shamani Lohmani: If we cannot convince Byrglaent to part with his wines, our next best option─as ridiculous as it sounds─is to find someone who has a bottle of Bacchus wine, and to offer them every gil we can spare. I've heard rumors that one of the vignerons tending the vineyards might have once owned a bottle─perhaps you could start by speaking with them?


Durim Falurim: Bacchus wine? Bah, don't remind me─used to have a cellar filled with the stuff! Thought I could keep the wine safe from thieves and the elements. Never counted on a bloody primal blowing up my godsdamned house!


Junghbhar: What? Do I have Bacchus wine? I wish! I never had the chance to try it myself. Sorry, friend, but you're a few years too late.
Shamani Lohmani: No luck, hm? Most regrettable, but we had to try.
Shamani Lohmani: Ahhh, but Bacchus wine would have been perfect for the occasion!
Shamani Lohmani: Though, I must confess, my certitude could be due in part to my personal history with the beverage. It is, after all, the very reason I decided to become a vintner.
Shamani Lohmani: After Titan blinded me in our battle beneath O'Ghomoro, I fell into a deep depression. It wasn't until I tasted Bacchus wine for the first time that I realized there was still so much I could experience, even in my condition. It helped me to find a new direction in life.
Shamani Lohmani: <sigh> It breaks my heart to think that wondrous ambrosia which once filled me with hope may be forever lost to us.






Lv. 33        Give a Man a Drink
Shamani Lohmani: I must say, this talk of Bacchus wine has made me rather nostalgic. Indeed, there is much I miss about my life with the Company of Heroes.
Shamani Lohmani: After everything the captain has done for me, I could not bear to disappoint him...
Shamani Lohmani: Aye, have no fear. I swear that I shall find a suitable wine for the banquet─though I may need some time to think of a solution.
Shamani Lohmani: In the meantime, there is a favor I would ask of you.
Shamani Lohmani: Two years ago, in the deepest depths of my despair, I stumbled across Vylbrand as a vagabond drunk. I suspect I was looking for a place to die, because I very nearly found one not far from here.
Shamani Lohmani: It was there that a man named Drest took me in and nursed me back to health. And it was he who gave me my first taste of Bacchus wine, which helped me to find my new calling. Though I am still a novice in the arts of winemaking, I would like him to know that I am pursuing my dream.
Shamani Lohmani: This wine is my own original creation, and I would be most grateful if you delivered it to him in my stead. Drest sometimes works at the Raincatcher Gully docks, so perhaps Rhitskylt can tell you where to find him.


Rhitskylt: Drest? Oh, you mean the hermit. Aye, I toss him a few gil when we need an extra pair of hands. He doesn't talk about himself, and I sure as hells don't ask.
Rhitskylt: When a man's got a face with scars like that, you best leave well enough alone, I say. If you've a mind to find him, though, then head southwest to the Severed String.


Drest: What...what do you want?
Drest: W-Wine? I...I didn't ask for this!
Who sent you!?
I...I... <groan>




Lv. 33        That Weight
Drest: Can't...can't sleep... They won't let me sleep...the midges... The buzzing...it keeps me awake...
Drest: I'm not... I...I never wanted to hurt anyone. I won't fight. I don't want to fight!
Drest: Please, make the buzzing stop! Make the midges go away!


Drest: It's not so loud anymore. Did...did you do that? Thank you. I─
Drest: <groan> Please, brothers, I beg of you! I said I'm sorry! Leave me... Leave me in peace!




Lv. 33 Not My War
Drest: Do...do you have any children? I've a...a son and a daughter. They were so little when I left... They probably think I'm dead.
Drest: I've been saving for years to...to buy passage back home somehow. But...still not enough. Maybe...maybe you could bring me some jungle coeurl skins? I...I can sell them. I just...I just want to go home...
Drest: Please... Even a few skins would help...
Drest: You...you helped me. Even after what my comrades and I did to your country...
Drest: We were on a reconnaissance mission when the Maelstrom caught us by surprise. We tried to escape, but the others... N-No one else survived.
Drest: I didn't ask for this, dammit! I'm not even Garlean! They conquered my lands just like they tried to conquer yours!
Drest: I...I don't want to die in some blasted jungle halfway around the world...
Drest: I just...I just want to go home...




Lv. 33        Battle Scars
Drest: I...I wish to thank Shamani for the wine. That...that was overly kind... Would you be willing to bear a gift back to him?
Drest: Earlier today at Red Mantis Falls, I collected the sap from nearby palm trees. If...if placed in coconut shells and stored for a few bells' time, it...it makes for a fine wine, see... It should be ready by now.
Drest: I left three shells out there. Please, take them to Shamani for me. I'm...I'm glad he's moved on with his life. I hope to one day do the same...


Shamani Lohmani: It has been some time, Coral. What news do you have of Drest?
Shamani Lohmani: <sniff> <sniff> Ah, yes, I recall he did have some knowledge of winemaking. A simplistic but nevertheless effective method that utilizes the natural properties of palm sap. I shall have to enjoy this batch before it spoils.
Shamani Lohmani: We are not so different, Drest and I. Two men who have long struggled not to let our scars define us...
Shamani Lohmani: I worry that he has been alone with his thoughts for far too long.
Shamani Lohmani: Aye, it is past time I paid him a visit. Thank you for looking after him, Coral.




Lv. 33        It Was a Very Good Year
Shamani Lohmani: By the gods... Coral, listen! I know you're eager to wash your hands of this wine business, but I've just discovered something extraordinary about Drest's palm wine!
Shamani Lohmani: He sealed each coconut shell with a leaf─a leaf which has a very distinct shape and unusual odor. I thought I was going mad at first, but now I'm certain: these are the leaves of a Bacchus grape vine!
Shamani Lohmani: Do you know what this means? Somewhere in Raincatcher Gully, the legendary vine still grows! If we could obtain a cutting, we could revive the Bacchus wine industry!
Shamani Lohmani: We must know where Drest found these leaves! Here, take one of them back to him and see what he remembers! 


Drest: Oh...hello again. What is it?
Drest: It's...it's just a leaf, isn't it? I only chose it because it was pretty. Didn't know it was rare...
Drest: I found them near the juggernaut to the south. But...I didn't see any grape vines.
Drest: I saw fresh goobbue tracks, though. Maybe...maybe the leaves came from vines growing on the back of one such beast?
Drest: If...if you go looking for it, please be careful. Some goobbues are more territorial than others, and you may have to defend yourself.


Shamani Lohmani: What did Drest have to say, Coral? Tell me everything!
Shamani Lohmani: Ahaha, I was right! This smell, this texture... I hold in my hands a Bacchus grape vine cutting!
Byrglaent: Come now, enough of this nonsense! I've heard talk of your discovery, and I refuse to believe that a common adventurer and a novice vintner could─
Byrglaent: Twelve as my witness, it is a Bacchus grape vine! Where ever did you find this fantastic specimen!?
Byrglaent: Wh-What...? You would offer this to me? But why!?
Shamani Lohmani: There is none better positioned to reconstruct the Bacchus vineyards than you, Master Byrglaent. You have the resources, the knowledge, and the passion to do so. It would be selfish of me to keep this cutting.
Byrglaent: I never knew you cared so deeply about your craft. Thank you, good sir. I will not squander this gift! In just a few years time, I swear that every tavern across Eorzea will once again be clamoring for a cask of Wineport's legendary Bacchus wine!
Shamani Lohmani: Sir, you needn't─ <sniff> <sniff> Wait! The shape of this bottle, the scent of this label... This couldn't possibly be...
Shamani Lohmani: A 1547 Bacchus!? But that's impossible! This vintage has not been seen since years before the Calamity!
Byrglaent: It was the crown jewel of my personal collection. For years, I debated opening it, wondering if today or tomorrow would be the ideal time. But now I realize that it was never meant for me─it should be savored by the saviors of Wineport, I say!
Shamani Lohmani: He has made us an offer we cannot refuse. Master Gegeruju will find no finer wine.
Shamani Lohmani: You have forever changed Wineport, Coral. Thank you for your kindness and your generosity.
Shamani Lohmani: Ah, but do not permit me to delay you any longer. Pray deliver the wine to Captain Wheiskaet.
Shamani Lohmani: Hm? Well, yes, I would very much like to drink it! But I am a patient man. I have faith that one day I shall have another opportunity to taste perfection.


Wheiskaet: Your prolonged absence was beginning to concern me. So, what of the wine I asked you to bring?
Wheiskaet: Is that...? Seven hells, a 1547 Bacchus! Even I know how rare that is!
Wheiskaet: I have to admit, I didn't think you had it in you... But congratulations, Coral. Thanks to you, this will be the most luxurious feast Costa del Sol has seen in years.




Lv. 33        A Final Ignominy
Wheiskaet: I hate to impose further after everything you've done, but would you mind helping Dyrstweitz lay out the banquet?
Wheiskaet: Our guests of honor are already here in Costa del Sol, and so Master Gegeruju has demanded that we finish preparations immediately.
Wheiskaet: Hm? The guests? Oh, I'm told that one is a beautiful Miqo'te scholar. Personally, I'm more curious about her companion, some famous adventurer with an endless list of accomplishments.
Wheiskaet: But you can judge for yourself soon enough.
Wheiskaet: Anyway, go and lend Dyrstweitz a hand. The poor man is liable to collapse from the stress.


Dyrstweitz: Perfect timing, Coral! Take all of this and arrange it on the counter!
Dyrstweitz: No time to chat─they'll be here any minute!


Y'shtola: Greetings, Coral. I thought it fitting that I seek you out and offer my gratitude for all that you have accomplished.
Wheiskaet: Excellent timing, Coral. Now that both our guests are present, the feast can begin!
Wheiskaet: Where are they, you ask? Why don't you ask your associate? I'm sure she'll be happy to explain.






Lv. 33        In the Company of Heroes
Y'shtola: ...You have the look of a man who has been to the seventh hell and back.
Y'shtola: That a guest should be expected to supply the victuals for a banquet held in his own honor... And this while the shadow of Titan looms over us all! It beggars belief.
Y'shtola: I can only applaud your stoicism. Had I been asked to endure such ignominy, I fear I should have accepted my lot with less grace.
Gegeruju: Lady Y'shtola! Sir Ferrinas!
Gegeruju: A thousand pardons for this extreme discourtesy! I was wholly unaware of your true identity, sir! Had I known, I would never have permitted my man to subject you to such unspeakable ordeals!
???: Come now, he must have sensed something was amiss.
Wheiskaet: You didn't seriously think I would send you running the length and breadth of Eorzea for a banquet, did you?
Y'shtola: Spare him your mockery, Captain. Your intent was unclear to me until this moment. And unlike me, Coral has no knowledge of your traditions. Mayhap you would be so good as to enlighten him.
Wheiskaet: Aye, aye...fair's fair. There's no sense hiding it any longer.
Wheiskaet: We five were chosen by our brothers and sisters, and before the Company of Heroes disbanded, we each swore a solemn oath...
Wheiskaet: That any who would follow in our footsteps must be weighed and measured─not by their reputation, but by their deeds.
Wheiskaet: Each man would judge these would-be god-slayers by his own criteria. If even one found him wanting, he would be rejected without a second thought.
Wheiskaet: But if he proved himself worthy, we swore that we would do our utmost to support his cause.
Wheiskaet: The world has ever been full of brave souls eager to give their lives for a righteous cause, but all too few capable of making a difference with their sacrifice. To send wave after wave of hapless adventurers into the jaws of a foe against whom they have no hope of victory is worse than futile. Titan is not one to be challenged lightly, and we will not be complicit in the deaths of the unworthy.
Y'shtola: Which is why the five of you deigned to test Coral with such commendable thoroughness. Time well spent, I am sure. But tell us, Captain: what is the assessment of you and your fellows?
Landenel: He's a brave one, that much is certain. He willingly walked into the midst of danger, despite my repeated warnings that it could cost him his life.


U'odh Nunh: His skill is undeniable. He stalked his prrrey as relentlessly as any Child of the Sands, and struck with precision when an opportunity presented itself.
Shamani Lohmani: Too many adventurers these days care only for fortune and glory. Coral, however, is a kind and generous soul. I am certain he has no shortage of loyal allies who will gladly fight at his side.
Brüllvolx: Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Wily uplander is talentful plansmaker. Tricksy foe for mighty rockman!
Wheiskaet: I can only concur with my colleagues' assessments.
Wheiskaet: We five of the Company of Heroes hereby judge you a worthy challenger. Cast down the Lord of Crags, Coral Ferrinas, and write a new chapter in the history of Eorzea.
Wheiskaet: With the formalities out of the way, let the festivities begin! Summon the dancers, pour the wine!
Wheiskaet: Eat, drink, and be merry, my friends, for today we celebrate the birth of a new legend─Coral Ferrinas, Titan's bane!
Company of Heroes: Coral Ferrinas, Titan's bane!


[NPC Interraction]
U'odh Nunh: It has been too long since I last set foot outside Forgotten Springs. Passing the time with old frrriends and old wine... Aye, today is a good day indeed.
Landenel: Seeing everyone again like this brings back such fond memories. Hmmm...I wonder if any of them would be interested in reforming the Company?
Brayflox Alltalks: Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Tastyfresh treats are plentiful in belly of Brayflox!
Shamani Lohmani: It feels wonderful to be with the others again. I wish this day would never end...




Bronze-skinned Beauty: Congratulations, sweetling! Now relax and enjoy the show─it's only just begun!


Tasting the exotic feast triggers a divine revelation. In that brief, transcendent moment you glimpse the true form of reality, comprehend its fleeting nature, and cry out to the heavens in celebration.




Shamani Lohmani: When you face the Lord of Crags, think not of Limsa Lominsa, Eorzea, or anything beyond his chamber. Think only of the men and women by your side.
Shamani Lohmani: Fight for them, and they will fight for you. Remember that no great victory was ever achieved alone.
Brayflox Alltalks: Pshhh... Shkohhh...
Goodly uplander must be facing mighty rockman with clever battlethink. Gobbieflock cannot be coming to rescue this time!
Landenel: Ah, Coral, you brave fool! Promise me that when you meet Titan, you'll look him in the eye and tell him Landenel sends his regards!
U'odh Nunh: You are a veteran of countless battles, Coral. This is but one more. Trrrust in your experience, and you will prevail.
Wheiskaet: You are blessed with a fortitude to rival the earth itself. Titan will struggle to break you, I think.


Y'shtola: ...You are kind to indulge them, Coral. This banquet is as much for the Company as it is for you, whatever they may claim.
Y'shtola: I do not deny that they mean well, but now is scarcely the time for celebration. Though they have all but pronounced you the victor, the battle with Titan has yet to begin. The hour has come for the good captain to make good on his promise. We must speak with him again.




Lv. 33        As You Wish
Wheiskaet: You must be eager to face Titan. As promised, we will show you the way.
Wheiskaet: Travel to Bronze Lake in upper La Noscea. There you will meet with Riol, another man who once served with the Company.
Wheiskaet: To ensure that this knowledge does not fall into the wrong hands, he will remain in hiding until you have given the correct signal.
Wheiskaet: Give me your map. You must whistle loudly at the three locations I mark. Only then will he appear to meet you at this fourth location. I realize this may seem excessive now, but you will see that it is more than reasonable once you comprehend the risks inherent in our method.


Riol: Greetin's, mate. Might you be the one the cap'n said would come callin'?
Riol: Aye, I thought so. Pay attention, now, 'cause I ain't explain' meself twice.




Lv. 34        Lord of Crags
Riol: Years ago, when we was weighin' up how to get to Titan, one of our scouts stumbled across this beastman aetheryte, see...
Riol: Eh? What's that look for? Not familiar with 'em?
Y'shtola: He speaks of an unamplified aetheryte which has been claimed by a beast tribe. Lest you wonder, there is no fundamental difference between such aetherytes and those which you have used on countless occasions, Coral.
Riol: Ah, well if it ain't the Sharlayan lass. Welcome back.
Y'shtola: Forgive me for interrupting. I had planned to await your report, but I succumbed to curiosity.
Y'shtola: The tunnels beneath O'Ghomoro form a bewildering labyrinth that no outsider has ever fully explored. How the Company of Heroes managed to navigate it is a mystery I have long pondered.
Riol: Ha! Give us a bit of credit, love! We weren't daft enough to try goin' in the front.
Riol: The kobolds are always diggin' new tunnels an' fillin' the old ones with traps. One wrong step, an' the next thing you know, ye've got a hundred tonzes o' rock on your noggin. Suicide to even try, see?
Riol: Funny thing was, the kobolds didn't seem to have no trouble findin' their way 'round─an' it was that as got us thinkin'. I mean, the O'Ghomoro Mines are like a bleedin' city, ain't they? An' gettin' around in a city that big would be a right pain in the arse if you didn't have an Aethernet, wouldn't it? So it stood to reason that the kobolds must have one, didn't it?
Y'shtola: Hm. Even if there were aetheryte shards in the depths of O'Ghomoro, you would have needed to attune yourselves to them before you could identify their signatures within the Lifestream.
Riol: Ah, well, that's where yer wrong, love. We had this Sharlayan bloke to help us, see. Delivered us right into Titan's bedchamber, he did.
Riol: I don't rightly know how he did it, but I do remember him sayin' it weren't nothin' any Sharlayan scholar worth her salt couldn't manage.
Y'shtola: ...Did he now? Hmph.
Locating a beacon in the absence of a known signature might be possible if the aetherytes in question happened to be... Ah, yes. But in order to guide a traveler to said beacon safely, a second party would be required to... Hmmm.
Y'shtola: It is possible─in theory at least. Yet I cannot be certain until I try. Plainly, all will depend upon whether or not I am “worth my salt.”
Riol: Oh, you are, lass! Don't you worry about that! Have a bit o' faith in yerself!
Riol: Why don't we all go to Zelma's Run an' take a closer look at the aetheryte? It ain't far─though there's sure to be a few kobolds blockin' the way. Naught ye can't handle, mind!


Y'shtola: So this is the aetheryte the Company of Heroes used to gain access to Titan's sanctuary.
Y'shtola: Hm. It is as Papalymo speculated.
Y'shtola: In its present state, this aetheryte's signal will not be strong enough for our purposes. I may, however, be able to use my own energies to amplify it. Alas, the task will monopolize my attention for the duration.
Y'shtola: It seems you will have to proceed without me, Coral. I must needs remain here and supplement this beacon's power, lest you be denied your only path of escape.
Y'shtola: Fear not: I will summon the Maelstrom forces stationed nearby to protect us.
Y'shtola: With effort, it is possible that I may be able to stabilize the aetheryte's signal and thereby join you, albeit belatedly. Until such time as I do, you will be on your own.
Y'shtola: Now...let us see if I am worth my salt.
Y'shtola: I have located another beacon─one far below the mountain. I can only speculate as to what you will find there, so stint not in your preparation.


Y'shtola: I must needs remain here to ensure that you have a means of egress. As I told you, we have no way of knowing what awaits you at the beacon, so be sure to prepare yourself prior to departing.




Cowering Kobold: Look, an overdweller! Yes, yes, an invader from above! He uses our aetherytes against us!
Crazed Kobold: He has defiled Titan's sacred sanctuary─trespassed, violated, defiled!
: Overdwellers must leave! Overdwellers must fly!
2nd Order Patriarch Za Da: Brothers and sisters, fear him not! His fate shall be decided by the Lord of Crags!
2nd Order Patriarch Za Da: Hear me, overdweller! You and your treacherous brethren must be held to account for the breaking of the covenant!
2nd Order Patriarch Za Da: You shall be first to face judgment! Then Limsa Lominsa and her oathbreakers─liars, betrayers, oathbreakers!
2nd Order Patriarch Za Da: O Great Father, Lord of Crags! Titan, we summon you! Titan, we summon you!
O Great Father, Lord of Crags! Titan, we summon you! Titan, we summon you!
: He is come! He is come! The Lord of Crags, Titan is come!
Titan: Overdweller...art thou deaf to their weeping?
Titan: Thy vile kind coveteth ever the blessing of the land and murdereth my children by the score─all in service to greed. Such sins are beyond pardon.
Titan: Ah...but I am not the first to suffer thy defiance. Thou didst bring Ifrit low.
Titan: Godless overdweller! Thy myriad heresies shall not go unpunished! Upon thee shall I wreak a terrible vengeance!


[Battle]
Titan: Sons of man! Murderers of my children! 
Titan: I shall grind thee beneath my heel, mortal! 
Titan: I shall grind thee beneath my heel, mortal! 
Titan: For thee my hatred is unending, unyielding! 
Titan: Tremble before the might of the earth! 
Titan: To the last, I grapple with thee!
Titan: Hie, my children, into the dark! He will not be denied...




: The Lord of Crags, Great Father Titan has fallen!
2nd Order Patriarch Za Da: The crimes of the overdwellers shall never be forgiven! Never be forgotten! No, no, never!
2nd Order Patriarch Za Da: 'Twas your kin who broke the covenant! We have acted only in defense of our lands!
2nd Order Patriarch Za Da: Cease your aggression, or never will there be peace! Until our dying breaths, we shall defy you─deny, decry, defy!
Nero Tol Scaeva: Now these are the readings one would expect of an eikon...
Nero Tol Scaeva: I have seen enough. We proceed as planned.
???: Are you sure that is wise, my lord? Your...curiosity is untested and unproven. We do not yet know its true capabilities.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Then trust in mine, Rhitahtyn. My curiosity, as you so eloquently put it, would have bested Titan in the blink of an eye.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Why, if there be truth to the legends, it could readily subjugate the whole of Eorzea given but a little while longer. Is that not so?
Lahabrea: It is. No greater single power has ever been conceived, much less realized.
Rhitahtyn Sas Arvina: What you say may well be true. But while such devices may win battles, I do not believe they will serve to change the course of this war.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Oh but they will. Have a little faith, my friend.
Rhitahtyn Sas Arvina: ...I cannot endorse this course of action.


Lahabrea: ...Fool.
Lahabrea: And now he has a fourth. Fascinating.
Lahabrea: Carry on, crystal bearer. Far though you have come, your work is far from done.
Y'shtola: And naught remained to mark his passing...
Y'shtola: Well, the Ascians are nothing if not elusive. It is of little wonder that they should cast advanced teleportation magicks at will.
Y'shtola: But that they would choose to consort with the Empire...
Y'shtola: What common goal could they possibly share...? 
Y'shtola: I feared I might arrive too late, but I see you had the matter well in hand.
Y'shtola: I have taken measures to ensure that we are not pursued, yet I cannot say how long they will hold.
Y'shtola: Take your leave while the kobolds are still in disarray. I will follow anon. There is something I must investigate before I depart.
Y'shtola: I will teleport you to the aetheryte in Zelma's Run, and we will rendezvous at Camp Bronze Lake. Agreed?




Y'shtola: I am relieved to see you well. But come, let us discuss our next step.




Lv. 34        All Good Things [Credits: Gwyenn Falkenrath]
Y'shtola: Though word will already have reached Maelstrom Command, protocol requires that a representative of our order inform the high commander of the mission's success. The honor is rightfully yours, Coral.
Y'shtola: Once again, I must commend you on a job well done. We shall speak again soon.


R'ashaht Rhiki: Thank you for coming, Coral. Word of your triumph reached me some while ago, but I am pleased to have it personally confirmed.
R'ashaht Rhiki: First Ifrit and now Titan... Truly, when I think of your achievements, I feel the loss of the Warriors of Light less keenly─and there can be no greater compliment than that. You and your order are heroes. The people of Limsa Lominsa are forever in your debt.
R'ashaht Rhiki: I shall relay the details of your report to the Admiral forthwith. Please send my regards to the Scions of the Seventh Dawn. 
Minfilia: Coral, this is Minfilia. Y'shtola has informed me of your success.
Minfilia: You have won a great victory for the people of Eorzea, one that shall not be forgotten.
Minfilia: And what is more, both you and Y'shtola emerged from O'Ghomoro unscathed. Why, Tataru and the others seemed as glad of that as they did of Titan's fall!
Minfilia: You can look forward to a hero's welcome!
We'll be awaiting your return at the Waking Sands. There is much to discuss. Godsspeed.


[Upon entering Walking Sands, dark corrides reeks of blood and dead bodies lay on the floor]


Noraxia: This one is glad...walking one is safe…


[Flashback begin]
Minfilia: We'll be awaiting your return at the Waking Sands. There is much to discuss. Godsspeed.
Minfilia: Thank heavens he is safe.
Minfilia: Louisoix, do you see? Your light shines brightly in this one. And in time, it will illuminate the realm once more.


[Gunshot]
Minfilia: <gasp>
Scion of the Seventh Dawn: Advance no further!


[Livia Sas Junius and the imperial army attack the Walking Sands]
Livia Sas Junius: We have come for the one who slayed Ifrit and Titan!
Livia Sas Junius: Bring him forth! Or you shall know no mercy!


[Tataru hides behind a door]
Tataru: <whimper>


[Livia Sas Junius shot a guard of the Scions]


Minfilia: Confound it.
Minfilia: Stay out of sight. I would leave a message with you.


[The imperial entered the solar]
Minfilia: I surrender myself, on the condition you spare the innocents.
Livia Sas Junius: Conditions? There speaks the supreme Scion.
Livia Sas Junius: I'll grant you have courage, but you would be better served by armor.
Minfilia: Search all you will, the one you seek is not here.
Livia Sas Junius: So it would seem.


[Minfilia was cuffed]
Minfilia: And yet you knew to look here...but how? <gasp>
Livia Sas Junius: Hold that thought.


[Noraxia flew out and defended Minfilia]
[Livia Sas Junius kicked Noraxia]
Minfilia: No!
Livia Sas Junius: Conditions of surrender...denied.


[The rest of the guard was killed, while key personnel was taken away]


Minfilia: Have you not done enough!
Livia Sas Junius: Perhaps. Enough! We must away.
Livia Sas Junius: Though we have not found our quarry, the “High Priestess of the Scions” should suffice for now.
Livia Sas Junius: They say she also possesses the Echo. I cannot wait to hear her scream.
Livia Sas Junius: I said “enough!”


[Livia Sas Junius shot her own guard]


Livia Sas Junius: We leave! Bring the prisoners.


[End flashback]
Noraxia: Walking...walking one Minfilia...asked this one to... <groan>
Noraxia: In case walking one r-returned...this one was to say...to say...
Noraxia: At church in eastern Thanalan...walking one must claim sanctuary...
Noraxia: This one tried...tried to protect walking one Minfilia f-from imperial ones...
Noraxia: For...give...this...one.
Noraxia: Save...
Noraxia: ...


[Noraxia died]


Iliud: Is something troubling you, my son? You have the look of one who has endured great suffering. If there is anything I can do to help─anything at all─you need only ask.


[Forgive me, Father, for I have sinned.]
Iliud: Close your eyes and look within. Acknowledge your misdeeds and your regrets. Pray endeavor to atone with an earnest heart, and you shall surely find salvation, my son.


[Curse my enemies, Father! Call down divine vengeance upon those who butchered my friends!]
Iliud: The crimes of which you speak are grave...yet I cannot do that which you ask of me. Be assured, however, that the gods see all. If you would ask them for anything, let it be justice and not vengeance.


[The wild rose are dead. Father, and I know not what to do.]
Iliud: ...The wild roses? I see. You may speak freely here. We are all friends of the Scions.
Iliud: How...how could this have happened...?
Iliud: And you are certain that Minfilia was among those taken by the Garleans?
Iliud: Let us pray no further harm comes to them...
Iliud: You may stay here for as long as you wish. It is the least I can do for a friend of Minfilia's.
Iliud: I have known her since she was but a child... Well do I recall the day of our first meeting.
Iliud: I swore then to do everything in my power to support her, and I will gladly offer the selfsame service to her brother and sister Scions.
Iliud: So please─no matter what you require, you need not hesitate to ask.
Iliud: Marques, would you come here for a moment?
Marques: Yes, Father?
Iliud: If you require assistance, pray speak with Marques. He is a trifle shy, but I assure you he means well.
Iliud: I should explain─Marques is a survivor of the battle of Carteneau. Alas, his experiences took a terrible toll upon his mind... Had we not taken him into our care, he would surely have perished in the desert.
Iliud: Marques, I want you to look after Gwyenn. Do you understand?
Marques: Yes, Father...


Lv. 35        With a Little Elbow Grease
Eaduuard: Aw, just my luck! I scavenged this here oven, thinkin' I could use it to make myself hot meals, but it looks to be in a bad way. Lots of dents, a few holes even...
Eaduuard: Hey, you're pretty well traveled, ain't ye? Ever seen one of these before─or better yet, know how to fix it? No? Bah...
Eaduuard: Wait, I know who we ought to ask. Mind showin' this oven to Marques for me? He repaired a clockwork toy I found once, so maybe he can do somethin' with it.


Marques: ...Is there something I can do for you?
Marques: This...this is an alchemist's alembic. You say the boy wishes to use it for cooking?
Marques: I suppose it would be possible, were I to make some modifications...but I would need a bronze ornamental hammer to do so. Can you bring me one, Coral? You need only go so far as Camp Drybone to find a merchant who sells tools.


Marques: I can convert the alembic into a makeshift oven, but only once you have brought me that hammer.
Marques: Thank you, Coral. It shan't take more than a day, I believe.
Marques: It's strange...I know I must have learned these skills long ago, but I haven't the foggiest when and where that was...






Lv. 35        You Can’t Take It with You
Marques: Excuse me, Coral...do you have a moment? It concerns this broken horologe which was found in the pocket of a man brought here for burial.
Marques: There is something...familiar about it...but just what I cannot say. Perhaps if I tinker with the device, it will come to me.
Marques: However, I lack the proper tools to do so. I would ask that you journey to Ul'dah in my stead to obtain a bull point chisel and a pair of needle-nose pincers. If you are willing to do this, please note that, as they are uncommon tools, you may need to visit the Goldsmiths' Guild and browse the markets in order to find them.


Syntgoht: Welcome, welcome! What might a discerning─ My word, did you say needle-nose pincers? You must be a skilled craftsman indeed! Please, take this pair as a gift. By the by, do you have representation here in the Exchange? If not, I would be most interested in discussing a partnership...
Memedesu: A bull point chisel? Why, yes, we happen to have a surplus of that particular tool. By all means, take one if you so desire. An odd request, if you don't mind me saying─it has a very limited number of applications...


Marques: Have you brought the tools I requested?
Marques: Hmmm...something occurs to me. Please wait here for a moment.
Marques: It was for naught. Though I repaired the device easily, this sensation it stirs within me remains a mystery.
Marques: But how...how did I do it?
Marques: These hands...my hands, they moved with a mind of their own, deftly manipulating the clockwork mechanisms...
Marques: There was no doubt or uncertainty. I knew exactly what to do, as though I had performed the same motions countless times before...
Marques: P-Pardon me, Coral─this was a mistake. Please give the horologe to Sister Eluned. The man who once owned it is currently in her care, and I think it best that it be returned to him.


Eluned: Good evening to you, sir. Have you come to pay your respects to this man?
Eluned: Never before have I seen such a queer device. You say that it measures the passing of time?
Eluned: Mayhap they are more common in Garlemald. I am given to understand that their cities are filled with all manner of amazing technologies.
Eluned: Marques said that it belonged to the deceased? Oh dear... You don't suppose that the owner might have been a Garlean spy? It may behoove us to notify the authorities in Camp Drybone.
Eluned: But...mayhap more importantly, how did Marques manage to repair this device? I knew he had a talent for the trades, but this goes far beyond mending fences and thatching roofs...




Lv. 35        A Tall Drink of Aqua del Sol
Ilcum: Excuse me, Coral. You don't know me, but I've observed you assisting the priests with their work. I too would like to offer what succor I might.
Ilcum: Since tending the lichyard in this heat can quickly sap one's energies, perhaps a restorative drink made to combat fatigue would be ideal.
Ilcum: Of course, Aqua del Sol! That would surely do the trick!
Ilcum: To make it, I would need a freshly cut brazo del sol. I've not the skill at arms to slay a wild sabotender del sol─but you do, so...
Ilcum: You need only go as far as the spring east of Camp Drybone─the beasts are often sighted in that vicinity. If you brought me one of their arms, I could make enough Aqua del Sol for everyone!


Ilcum: Have you considered my request, Coral?
Ilcum: I never imagined that you would return so quickly! Thank you so much.
Ilcum: It's an incredibly simple beverage to prepare. If you would wait but one moment...
Ilcum: There! This should serve as a sample of─wait, don't drink it! I mean, I...I was hoping you might give the first flask to Marques on my behalf.
Ilcum: Of course, I intend to provide everyone with a flask eventually. It's just that Marques is so...
Ilcum: He's such a...hard worker, don't you think?


Marques: Oh, Coral. What is it?
Marques: For me? I... Thank you.
Marques: Was it perhaps the girl who...? No, no, it couldn't have been her.
Marques: I appreciate Ilcum's kind gesture, but Father Iliud is in far greater need of this juice. His work places great strain on his body and soul, yet he continues to neglect his health...




Lv. 35        Bringing out the Dead
Eluned: I recognize you now, Coral. Allow me to express my deepest condolences for those who lost their lives in the attack.
Eluned: I apologize if discussing this upsets you, but...you should know that the bodies of your comrades are presently being removed from the Waking Sands and prepared for transport here.
Eluned: If you wish to leave this work to others, I understand. However, taking part might help you to find closure.


Vesper Bay Shopkeep: Eh? Ye don't look like one of them church fellas. Not that I'll turn ye away, no sir.
Vesper Bay Shopkeep: As ye can see, we've got a pile of unidentified bodies over yonder. No one's come to claim 'em, so off to the lichyard they go.
Vesper Bay Shopkeep: Be thankful ye didn't have to go inside and see the carnage for yerself. 'Twas the stuff of nightmares, I tell ye. Godsdamned imperials. <spit>
Vesper Bay Shopkeep: I don't know what quarrel they had with these folks, and I sure as hells don't want to know. The sooner we put this behind us, the better.
Vesper Bay Shopkeep: Say...ain't I seen you 'round here afore? Or do ye just have one of them faces? Ah, never mind...
Vesper Bay Shopkeep: Anyroad, there's a carriage come to haul the bodies to the lichyard, out by the east gate.
Vesper Bay Shopkeep: There's only eight left to load up, but seein' as I'm exhausted from carryin' all the others, I've a mind to leave the remainder to you.
Vesper Bay Shopkeep: Might want to cover yer nose while ye work. Some of these folk're startin' to turn...


Disconcerted Coachman: What happened to the big fella? Ah, forget it. Just bring the next batch and toss 'em in the back─ain't like they'll complain if you're rough!
Disconcerted Coachman: Well, ain't you a strong one. Four in one trip! Reckon there's no need for me to lend you a hand with the rest, then.
isconcerted Coachman: Come on, come on! Let's finish this before I die of old age.
Disconcerted Coachman: That should be all of 'em! Thanks for the help.
Disconcerted Coachman: Reckon it won't take too long to deliver all the corpses to the lichyard. Even so, you might want to hurry back an' tell 'em that our work here is done.


Disconcerted Coachman: What? Wondering why I'm still here? Hells, I don't need to rush. Ain't like these folk have pressing appointments to keep, you know.


Eluned: I see that you decided to heed my advice. I pray that, in doing so, you found some small measure of peace.
Eluned: The first carriage from Vesper Bay arrived not long ago, and we have begun preparing your comrades for burial. I had a hand in the initial rites, and I...I would like you to know that, for many, death came quickly.
Eluned: Rest assured that we will treat them with the utmost respect, and do everything we can to shepherd them to Thal's realm.






Lv. 35        The Warden Works in Mysterious ways
Eluned: There is one thing I regret to inform you: though we wished to inter your comrades on church grounds, the number of fallen Scions far exceeded our estimates.
Eluned: After discussing the matter with Father Iliud, we have concluded that we have no choice but to bury the dead in the same plots as those who perished in the Calamity.
Eluned: Please forgive us. We do not wish to dishonor the memory of the fallen. But, as caretakers of the lichyard, these are the realities we must face.
Eluned: Coral... What befell your order was an unforgivable crime. If you would have these villains brought to justice, consider making a pilgrimage to the mark of the Warden.
Eluned: Though I do not follow the teachings of Azeyma, it is said that to offer prayers before Her mark is to invoke Her divine judgment. Regardless of your faith, mayhap it would be worth the effort.


As you kneel before the mark of the Warden in a moment of quiet solitude, you breathe deep of the dry desert air. The roar of the rushing waters is punctuated by the faint chirping of vilekin and the shrill cries of a hawk. The gods, however, remain silent...


Eluned: You have honored the dead with your pilgrimage, Coral. Even if Azeyma did not hear your prayers, I believe that they provided comfort to your fallen brethren.
Eluned: Remember that although the body is but a vessel that must one day be surrendered to the Lifestream, our souls shall endure, and the righteous shall find solace in Thal's realm.






Lv. 35        Bury Me Not on the Lone Prairie
Eluned: Although we can perform rites for most of the Scions, there is one whom we cannot accept. We would like you to return this one to her people, the sylphs of Little Solace.
Eluned: It is only proper that she be given into the care of her friends and family, so that they may mourn her in accordance with sylphic traditions.


Komuxio: This one is surprised to see walking one in Little Solace. How can these ones assist walking one?
Komuxio: <gasp> Noraxia!? But...this one does not understand...
Frixio: Komuxio, this one has heard much wailing. This one would know what has caused such distress.
Komuxio: Terrible news, elder one! Awful news!
Frixio: Walking one has returned to Little Solace? But why? These ones have not requested further aid.
Frixio: Noraxia!? How did this happen? Explain everything to this one, at once!
Frixio: So...not only Noraxia, but many of walking one's friends were lost as well.
Komuxio: <sob> Noraxia...
Frixio: Noraxia went to Thanalan at the behest of this one...
Frixio: Walking one was with Noraxia at the end... Tell this one that Noraxia was brave. Tell this one that Noraxia did not suffer.
Frixio: This one is glad to hear walking one's words.
Frixio: Thank you for bringing Noraxia home, walking one.
Frixio: These ones also wish to thank praying ones. Tell praying ones these ones will remember their kindness.
Komuxio: This one demands vengeance! Imperial ones must pay! Imperial ones must suffer!
Komuxio: When the time comes for walking ones to face imperial ones, do not forget these ones! These ones would not have Noraxia's death be for naught! These ones will fight!


Eluned: We thank you for your service to the church and to the sylphs. You may be pleased to know that, in your absence, we interred the remaining Scions in the lichyard.
Eluned: Perhaps you still wish to do more for your friends. If so, I would remind you that you have already done so much on their behalf. Please, take a rest and set aside your burdens for now, Coral.




Lv. 35        Eyes on Me
Marques: I...I'm not imagining it, Coral. I know I'm being watched...
Marques: No, no...not the girl─I know about her. No, this is different─sinister. It is as if I am...under observation.
Marques: The feeling comes and goes...but I felt it when last I ventured outside. Yes. I know I felt it. Will you look outside for me...please? It will only take a moment.


[An Imperial Frumentarius attacked]
Marques: You were attacked, weren't you? Are you unharmed? Thank the gods.
Marques: I knew it. He was watching me. ...But why was he watching me?
Marques: What did he want with me? Did he, perhaps...know something of my past? If only I could have asked him...
Marques: I...I need to think. Please, allow me a moment alone. Wait. Father Iliud must hear of this. Will you tell him for me? It's important. I think others may come for me again.


Iliud: Heavens forfend... That such a thing should happen on holy ground! Do you have any idea who this man was? Did you notice anything distinctive about his garb or possessions?
Iliud: This...this is Garlean steel. Which means the man who was watching Marques was...
Iliud: Make haste to Camp Drybone at once! We must summon the Immortal Flames before more imperials come!


[Alphinaud appeared]
Alphinaud: Hmph. I fondly hoped that I might be the first to speak with you... Would that I had been so fortunate.
Alphinaud: At ease, adventurer─I come not on behalf of the Empire. On the contrary, I mean to revive the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Alphinaud: And to that end...
Alphinaud: I have come in search of a legend─the greatest engineer of our time. Master Cid Garlond─I have come for you.
Iliud: I fear you are mistaken, child. He is but a poor soul who bore witness to the horrors at Carteneau.
Iliud: I beg of you, leave us in peace...
Marques: Wait... I…


[Marques clutches his head in great pain and rised as it subsided]


Alphinaud: Hear me, Cid! Eorzea needs you!


[Marques mumbled, and Iliud went back to bring out a large box]
Iliud: Cid, was it? Here...these belong to you.
Iliud: I thought you bore the mark of greatness... It seems that I was right.
Iliud: Our time together was all too brief, but it felt as though my son had returned to me. You have brought joy to an old man's life.
Iliud: But it's time for you to help those who truly need you.
Cid: Who...are you?


Alphinaud: Alphinaud Leveilleur, at your service.
Alphinaud: As a Scion of the Seventh Dawn, I stand against our primal and imperial foes─as my grandfather once did.
Alphinaud: 'Tis no secret what befell our order at the Waking Sands. Word has already spread across Eorzea.
Alphinaud: The repercussions are far greater than you realize. In the wake of the Calamity, the three city-states focused their efforts solely on reconstruction.
Alphinaud: Leaving the Scions to combat the primal threat unaided.
Alphinaud: And lo, we are all but destroyed. Yet even as the nations mourn our demise, and abandon what little hope they have left, we cannot forsake our duty─now least of all.
Alphinaud: The Ixal have summoned Garuda once more, and she torments the people of Coerthas as we speak.
Alphinaud: Her appetite for destruction far exceeds that of other primals.
Alphinaud: Worse, in her present incarnation, our Baldesion colleagues believe she surpasses both Ifrit and Titan in strength.
Alphinaud: Yet therein lies an opportunity. Were we somehow to defeat Garuda, it would serve as a warning to the other beast tribes that even their mightiest gods can be felled.
Alphinaud: If we are to face our foe, we must first circumvent the tempest that shields her sanctuary.
Alphinaud: And for that, we need an airship─your airship, Cid.
Cid: I...I have...an airship?
Alphinaud: Yes, Cid, you do. Your very own airship.
Alphinaud: It was last seen in the skies over Gridania, not long before the Calamity, so let us begin our search there.
Cid: An airship...? My airship...?
Cid: W-Wait...
Alphinaud: Come, let us put an end to the primals! Together, we will show the world that the Scions are still a force to be reckoned with!
Cid: They need my airship... They need...me.


[NPC Interaction]
Alphinaud: I suppose we should be grateful for our good fortune─though it matters little should Garuda grow powerful enough to bring Eorzea to heel.
Cid: The Enterprise...   I...I have heard that name before, but where?


Lv. 36 He Who Waited Behind
Iliud: What a curious twist of fate that Master Cid Garlond would at last be found within our church. It defies imagination...
Iliud: Beg your pardon, Coral. You wish to find his airship, yes?
Iliud: I know not how much truth there is to it, but the final flight of the Enterprise─a curious tale which grew popular in the wake of the Calamity, much like the great goobbue wall of Ul'dah─states that the Enterprise flew northwest from Gridania towards Coerthas.
Iliud: If true, the airship would have passed through the North Shroud, likely over Fallgourd Float─the closest settlement to Coerthas. Mayhap the Serpents stationed there have records of the events that transpired that day.
Iliud: I had hoped you might rest from your journeys for a time, but I see that the world still has need of you and the Scions. Pray look after yourself and Cid, Coral.


Aethelmaer: Is there aught I can assist you with, sir?
Aethelmaer: The Enterprise? You speak of Master Garlond's ship, yes?
Aethelmaer: Aye, I needn't refer to the records. I know that the airship was sighted overhead five years ago, clearly bound for Coerthas. What became of it after that I cannot say.
Aethelmaer: If you wish to know more, pray speak with Vortefaurt at Florentel's Spire. He was on duty that day and saw it with his own eyes.
Aethelmaer: I am unsure what it is you hope to accomplish, though. Even should you locate the ship, would you not need a man of Master Garlond's caliber to fly it? I hear tell that the machinery is fiendishly complex...


Vortefaurt: You have come in search of Vortefaurt? Then well met, for you have found him.
Vortefaurt: Indeed, I have served as a Wailer for many years, since before the great snows came to Coerthas. What exactly is this about?
Vortefaurt: Ahhh, the final flight of the Enterprise. I do indeed remember that day...








Lv. 36        Cold Reception
Vortefaurt: 'Twas on the eve of the Battle of Carteneau, nigh on five years ago. I held the spire alone that night, while the bulk of our forces marched to meet the enemy in the field.
Vortefaurt: At a time when any sane man ought to be headed the other way, the most fantastic airship I'd ever seen split the sky overhead, barreling towards the battlefield. I could only watch in shock as it disappeared over the mountains to the north. If the Enterprise wasn't destroyed during the Calamity, I'd wager it's still somewhere in Coerthas.
Vortefaurt: The astrologians at the Observatorium may have records which could help. But to obtain them, you would need to deal with the Ishgardians who control the region. I wouldn't expect much, though─the High Houses have long been concerned with their own affairs above all else. When Dalamud descended, they took shelter behind their gates, and even now they have little regard for the plights of other nations.
Vortefaurt: Nevertheless, they may deign to assist you should you prove yourself useful. Consider providing your services to the soldiers who guard the Observatorium. Though they may refuse you at first, I've little doubt they would accept aid freely offered.


Ludovoix: Excuse me, can you repeat that? You wish to offer your services to House Durendaire? And what, pray tell, do you wish to receive in exchange?
Ludovoix: Hah, how absurd! As if we would permit an outsider to peruse the records of the Observatorium.
Ludovoix: Do not mistake our courtesy for friendliness. The Holy See of Ishgard may allow foreigners to travel freely within these lands, but we do not intend to offer succor to strangers.


Lv. 36        The Unending War
Ludovoix: Halone have mercy, are you still here? You may take shelter within our walls if you insist, but do not distract me while I am on duty. We're stretched thin as it is.
Ludovoix: And where in the hells is that knight I sent out on patrol? He should have returned ages ago!
Ludovoix: Hmmm... Perhaps I have a use for you, after all. If you still wish to aid us, search the wilds to the west for my missing man. You will know him by his uniform─that of House Durendaire, as is mine.


[Hooded Assaulter is attacking a Knight]


Keeled-over Knight: If it wasn't for you, sir, I reckon they would've finished me off.
Keeled-over Knight: Despicable dragon-loving bastards. <spit> Death was a mercy they didn't deserve.
Keeled-over Knight: I prayed the rumors were mistaken, but this confirms the worst. I must immediately inform my superiors that the heretics are operating within this region. Fare thee well, friend.


Ludovoix: I must say, I didn't actually expect you to find my knight, much less rescue him! I see I may have been premature in my judgment, sir.
Ludovoix: We are a proud people, beholden to tradition, but that does not mean we are without humility.
Ludovoix: I shall instruct the astrologians to entertain your request. However, understand that it is ultimately their decision whether or not you may peruse their records. Pray proceed to the Observatorium and introduce yourself to Edmelle.


Edmelle: Ah, the gentleman come in search of the airship. This is highly unorthodox... What ever could Ser Ludovoix be thinking?
Edmelle: It is true that we maintain meticulous records which stretch back generations. However, because this information is used to chart Dravanian activity, access is strictly controlled. One can never be too careful with heretics and their sympathizers lurking about.
Edmelle: If you would persist with your inquiries, pray seek an audience with Chief Astrologian Forlemort up above.




Forlemort: No. Absolutely not. Have you any inkling what it is you ask?
Forlemort: Were our records to fall into the wrong hands, it could change the course of a war which has raged for generations! I speak not of some mere spat between southron nations. Ours is a holy crusade, and we are the arbiters of Halone's will!
Forlemort: I will not put our great nation at risk─certainly not to help a foreigner locate a missing airship, of all things!
Guillaime: Pardon the intrusion, Forlemort. I wished to speak with you regarding the recent─ Oh, I did not realize you had a guest.
Forlemort: Inquisitor Guillaime! Y-You honor us with your presence, sir. The gentleman was just leaving.
Guillaime: Ahhh, you must be the one who rescued House Durendaire's knight from those heretics. Doubtless they feel indebted to you. I am told you seek an airship last seen in Coerthas five years ago, yes?
Guillaime: You come to us at an inconvenient time, I fear. Much has changed in the intervening years, and little for the better. While I wish you the best of luck in your search, I would also strongly advise caution.
Guillaime: The snows can come quickly in Coerthas. One moment you may feel as though you have a firm grasp on your surroundings, safe and secure in your knowledge, and the next you may find yourself in a wholly unfamiliar situation, blind to the dangers hidden by the blizzard. It would be wise for you to focus on a single landmark whilst traveling. Do not give in to temptation and deviate from your course.
Forlemort: I was not aware you aided House Durendaire in that fashion. Thank you, sir. Nevertheless, my decision stands. I cannot give you what you seek.




Lv. 36        Men of Honor
Jocea: You there, sir! I could not help but overhear your conversation with the chief astrologian. There may be a way I can assist you, but it would require that you perform for me a favor in exchange.
Jocea: An associate of mine has yet to return from his expedition to the cliffs east of the Observatorium. He was adamant that he could conduct his observations alone, despite the presence of Ixal in that vicinity. If you would seek out this astrologian and confirm that he is well, it would be a great comfort to me.


Established Astrologian: What a relief to see someone other than a godsdamned birdman! I thought I could finish my work whilst the Ixal were away, but they returned far quicker than I anticipated. It was all I could do to hide and hope they might leave again before I froze to─
Established Astrologian: Wait, who are you!? You are not one of our knights!
Established Astrologian: A man of House Durendaire cannot be seen in the company of an unbeliever! Good day, sir!


Jocea: The arrogant fool returned not long before you arrived, muttering about the disgrace of having been rescued by an unbeliever. Serves him right for underestimating the dangers our knights face every day.
Jocea: Ah, but you are eager to locate your airship. It may surprise you that by saving him, you have already aided your own cause.
Jocea: House Durendaire is quick to regard outsiders with suspicion, as it is their duty to sound the alarm at the first sign of Dravanian aggression. Yet you have already aided them twice, for which they are honor-bound to repay you.
Jocea: Even so, they will not grant you access to the Observatorium's records. That is just as well, for there are other ways you might locate your missing airship.
Jocea: What I propose is that you petition Lord Portelaine for an official introduction to the other High Houses. The word of House Durendaire carries tremendous weight in Ishgard. Should the captain consent, you would have little trouble obtaining information from the other High Houses.


Portelaine: You've caused quite a stir in your short time here. First you slay two heretics and save a knight, and now I hear you have rescued a man of our house. I imagine you must desire something for your troubles.
Portelaine: An introduction to the other High Houses? I cannot deny that you have given us no cause to distrust you. But while you have performed two acts, you would have me endorse you to three High Houses. It is only fitting that you aid us one final time, wouldn't you agree?




Lv. 36        Three for Three
Portelaine: Now, now, I understand you are very eager to find your missing airship. Worry not, for this task should take a man of your skills but a moment to complete.
Portelaine: Not long ago, a porter bound for Skyfire Locks was ambushed on the road due west of here. Though he escaped with his life, he would very much like his wares as well. On the off chance any portion of his shipment remains, I would have you travel to the scene of the robbery and bring back what you find.
Portelaine: Lest you intend to perform only a cursory search, bear in mind that recovering the stolen merchandise will endear you to House Haillenarte, further improving the chances that they indulge your request for aid.


[Hooded Assaulter attack while picking up wares.]


Portelaine: Have you good tidings to share? Or better yet, stolen merchandise to show?
Ambushed Porter: Gods bless ye, friend! It's all here, every last─ah, but wait. That chest over there looks like it might've been pillaged.
Ambushed Porter: Bloody hells, that's the personal property of Lord Francel, too...
Portelaine: Are you certain? Clearly an attempt was made to open it, but the lock appears to have held. Nevertheless, if you wish to verify the contents against your shipping manifest, be my guest.
Portelaine: Fury take me, a draconian rosary! In the possession of Lord Francel!?
Portelaine: Yet...perhaps this is not so difficult to fathom. House Haillenarte is whispered to be infested with heretics...
Portelaine: Thank you for bringing this matter to my attention, sir. I shall inform the inquisitors immediately. Under these circumstances, I must strongly advise against associating with House Haillenarte. 
Portelaine: Your other introductions will need to be postponed, as well. It is the duty of every Ishgardian to root out and destroy heretics─all else must wait until this matter is resolved.


Lv. 36        The rose and the Unicorn
Carrilaut: (Come closer, lad, and listen well. This is for your ears only.)
Carrilaut: (Lord Francel is no heretic. He is a goodly, righteous man, wholly dedicated to the cause.)
Carrilaut: (I know this because I served House Haillenarte for years prior to the Calamity.)
Carrilaut: (You must go to Skyfire Locks and warn him of the coming storm. The inquisitors are ruthless and will spare him no mercy.)
Carrilaut: (Speak to him of an edelweiss, and he will know you for a friend. Now, go.)


Francel: Yes? You look as though you have something to say. Do you?


[I seek an audience with the bearers of the white lily.]
Francel: Then you have come to the wrong place, for we of House Haillenarte bear the Rose. Mayhap you should journey to Gridania? I believe an ancient Duskwight house was said to use the white lily as its sigil.


[I will go whither the wild rose blooms.]
Francel: ...What an odd thing to say. Did you perchance receive a blow to the head not long ago? Or is this some queer southron jest?


[Is that an edelweiss in your pocket, or are you happy to meet me?]
Francel: I see Ser Carrilaut has not forgotten my mother's favorite flower. A pity it has not been seen in Coerthas since the Calamity. You may speak freely here, friend.
Francel: That's...that's absurd! I would sooner die than become a thrall of the dragons!
Francel: Alas, it matters little what I say at this point. Although the draconian rosary was not found in my possession, it will still be considered by many to be proof of my “heresy.” I must do my utmost to prove my innocence to the inquisitors, for if they harbor even the slightest doubt...
Francel: <sigh> This will only add weight to the incessant accusations our house has suffered of late. It's as though the gods themselves are plotting our fall...
Francel: You risk much by coming here. It is only proper that I recompense you for this deed. Tell me what you desire, and I shall do my best to provide.
Francel: A missing airship? I see. It may require a prolonged effort to locate your quarry. I shall direct you to one in a better position to assist you.
Francel: Lord Haurchefant of House Fortemps commands the garrison at Camp Dragonhead. Present to him this letter of introduction, and he will surely be receptive to your needs.


Haurchefant: Ah, the unmistakable swagger of a well-traveled adventurer. If you are come to pay your respects, be at ease, friend. I am not one to stand on formality.
Haurchefant: Truth be told, I would gladly welcome many and more brave souls like yourself. But enough chatter─pray tell me why you have come.
Haurchefant: If there is any justice in this world, these charges will receive no serious consideration.
Haurchefant: It is beyond inconceivable... Ah, yes. The letter made mention of a pressing matter for which you required assistance. What might that be?
Haurchefant: So this Enterprise you speak of was last seen above Coerthas before the Calamity five years ago. I fear it may prove difficult to find any eyewitnesses to these events, for while Ishgard did not participate in the Battle of Carteneau, we were embroiled in our own internal conflicts at the time.
Haurchefant: Nevertheless, I will make inquiries on your behalf and share with you my findings in the future.
Haurchefant: In the meantime, please enjoy the hospitality of Camp Dragonhead. As a guest of House Fortemps, I will see that you are afforded every courtesy.


[NPC Interraction]
Cid: I'm glad we left the Observatorium. The people there were not friendly.
Cid: Though even here, I can feel eyes upon us. We...we are not safe.
Alphinaud: We came to find an airship, yet now we meddle in Ishgardian affairs of state?
Alphinaud: Gods, if Alisaie were here, I would never hear the end of it... 


Lv. 37        Feats of Strength
Haurchefant: It may take some time before I receive any information regarding your missing airship. While you wait, mayhap you might indulge me a small favor?
Haurchefant: It is obvious to me that you know much and more of the ways of war. I ask that you share that knowledge with our knights, so that they might be better prepared when next the Dravanian Horde strikes.
Haurchefant: One of my veteran knights is presently conducting a training session just beyond our western gate. Pray seek him out and introduce yourself. He will explain how you can help.


Storied Knight: A fine evening to you, sir. Lord Haurchefant tells me you possess a great deal of experience─certainly more than the green boys I mean to test today. If you will allow, I would like to even the odds by setting all three against you. No objections, yes? Then let us begin─knights, to arms!
Haurchefant: I observed everything from the western wall. Splendid performance, Coral!
Haurchefant: Mayhap you have discerned this during your short time here, but House Fortemps regards outsiders differently than the other High Houses. We have no objections to employing adventurers and sellswords, for example, whereas the others have, for all intents and purposes, forbidden the practice.
Haurchefant: They do so at their peril. To disregard a man's talents solely because of the circumstances of his birth is shortsighted and foolish.
Haurchefant: You know...after watching you spar with our knights, I am reminded that you are a man of action. Doubtless you would rather take a more active role in my inquiries, yes? Then let us discuss how you can do just that.




Lv. 37        The Talk of Coerthas
Haurchefant: As you have doubtless realized by now, the High Houses of Ishgard─House Fortemps included─are either unable or unwilling to offer you formal assistance in your search.
Haurchefant: However, that does not mean that there are not influential individuals within each house who are sympathetic to your cause.
Haurchefant: Lady Ninne of mine own House Fortemps, who resides here in Camp Dragonhead, rather enjoys the company of travelers. There is also Cravellin of House Haillenarte, who can be found at Skyfire Locks─though any information you pry from the scribe may prove difficult to parse.
Haurchefant: Have you spoken with the chief astrologian of House Durendaire yet? Really? Hm... Perhaps he will be more accommodating once I inform him that you are a friend of House Fortemps.
Haurchefant: Do not concern yourself with House Dzemael─I shall contact them myself. Seek the counsel of the three I mentioned, and return to me when finished.


Ninne: Why, hello, good sir. What's that? An airship, you say? I hate to disappoint you, but I know nothing of what you seek. Likely no one of House Fortemps does, for if they did, I would definitely know as well.
Ninne: The topic on everyone's lips these days is what will become of young Lord Francel. Some say the allegations are long overdue, given how many members of House Haillenarte have been found guilty of heresy in recent days...


Cravellin: Halone, grant me strength! There must be some way to─ Oh, who are you? A friend of Lord Haurchefant?
Cravellin: I want to help you, I truly do! But these accusations of heresy have thrown House Haillenarte into chaos. Right now, we must focus on combating these charges and preserving our reputation.


Forlemort: I gather you have been busy since last we spoke. Lord Haurchefant's missive was positively glowing. But if you think that his endorsement is cause for me to disregard Ishgardian policies, then you are sorely mistaken.
Forlemort: We are at war, sir, and the enemy grows bolder by the day. Why, in the short time since Inquisitor Guillaime arrived in Coerthas, countless heretics have been discovered, even amongst the elite of Ishgardian society!
Forlemort: If Lord Haurchefant wishes to waste his days chasing after a long-lost airship, then that is his choice. But if he expects others to share in his folly, then he is truly blind to the present state of affairs.


Haurchefant: By your countenance, I take it you did not learn anything of use.
Haurchefant: Nor did I, I fear. It seems the whole of Coerthas is consumed by this talk of heretics in the High Houses. We can only hope that my sources in Ishgard proper provide more pertinent information.


Lv. 38        Road to Redemption
Haurchefant: I had another personal request to make of you. It concerns Lord Francel, of whom much has been whispered in recent days. I have received a report that he and three knights were seen heading north towards the Steel Vigil.
Haurchefant: The outpost was long ago overrun by the Dravanian Horde, so I am not certain what he intends to accomplish with such a small force.
Haurchefant: Whatever his motives, I fear for his safety. Pray journey to the Steel Vigil and see if Lord Francel's party requires assistance.


Francel: Who goes there!? Coral!? No, stay back! The fiend is still here!
Francel: Halone be praised, you did it! But what of the others? The three knights who accompanied me, where are they!?
Unfit Knight: Confound it all! How are we to redeem House Haillenarte if we cannot even slay a single aevis!? <sigh> We are fortunate you came along when you did, sir. House Haillenarte will remember your kindness.
Unsettled Knight: I heard the beast's cries from over yonder. Then Lord Francel is safe? Bless you, sir, bless you!
Unnerved Knight: Curse those fiends! It's as though they knew we were coming...


Francel: It was a foolish thing to do, I know, but I had hoped we might demonstrate our devotion by slaying a number of the scalekin.
Francel: Moreover, it was House Haillenarte that yielded the Steel Vigil to the horde many years ago. One might say that our defeat here heralded the slow decline of our house's once-great name.
Francel: We have been brought even lower by these despicable accusations of heresy. And despite my best efforts, I have done naught to improve the situation.
Francel: The day of my trial approaches. Soon I must accept the judgment of the inquisitors, whatever it may be. But even should my protestations fall on deaf ears, I will proclaim my innocence to my dying breath!


Haurchefant: What did you find at the Steel Vigil? Ah, I see... A reckless plan, but at least it did not cost him and his knights their lives.
Haurchefant: I have news for you as well. A witness to the final flight of the Enterprise has been found. Alas, there is a complication.
Haurchefant: It has become common knowledge that you paid a visit to Lord Francel at Skyfire Locks not long ago. Upon learning of this, the witness became understandably reticent to make your acquaintance, for fear of being seen in the company of a man who might later be declared a heretic.
Haurchefant: A not unreasonable fear, given the zeal with which Inquisitor Guillaime has conducted his investigations. In any case, if we wish to obtain his testimony, we must first clear Lord Francel's name─and, by association, yours.








Lv. 38        Following the Evidence
Haurchefant: As I see it, the key to proving Lord Francel's innocence is discrediting the evidence against him. I speak of the draconian rosary found in the chest you yourself recovered. If you would, please tell me of the incident in question.
Haurchefant: ...So it was found in a locked chest labeled as the property of Lord Francel. If the rosary was not his, then someone else with access must have planted it. Here is what you must do: return to Skyfire Locks and speak with Rickeman. He works closely with the porters who ferry goods across Coerthas, so he may have some inkling of who could be responsible.




Rickeman: Eh? Someone tamperin' with shipments? Fury strike me down, if all them rosaries found in our people's possessions were planted... Hey now, don't you give me that look, lad! I'm a House Haillenarte man through an' through. This heresy nonsense is bad for me an' my family too!
Rickeman: I ain't sayin' the porters what were bringin' the shipment did it, though. I know most of them what work the trade routes, an' I've never had cause to question their faith. But if it wasn't them neither, then your guess is as good as mine. After all, most every shipment is thoroughly inspected before it─
Rickeman: Eh? Could it've been the fellas what were responsible for the inspections? Hah! Ishgardian knights and inquisitors, the lot of them. As if they'd ever turn their cloaks. <sigh> Reckon that means the porters are your most likely suspects.
Rickeman: Hate to think it, but maybe you should question them. There's a crew comin' to Camp Dragonhead from Whitebrim Front today. You might consider havin' a word with them.


Apathetic Porter: Beg your pardon? You suspect that we porters have been planting draconian rosaries in House Haillenarte shipments!? What nerve! If you truly believe such nonsense, search our parcels and see what you find!
Apathetic Porter: Are we finished? If so, I would appreciate an apology.
Apathetic Porter: But...but that's impossible! Once the knight at Whitebrim Front concluded her inspection, I loaded the parcels into the wagon myself!
Apathetic Porter: And if I had been the culprit, I would have never allowed you to search my shipments! Say what you will to Lord Haurchefant─I will not be held accountable for this!


[NPC Interaction]
Apathetic Porter: <yawn> Search to your heart's content. Your efforts will be for naught.
Plain-spoken Porter: No time to talk─we're on a tight schedule. Once we've made our deliveries here, we're to deliver parcels to Skyfire Locks.


Haurchefant: Did something happen outside? I thought I heard shouting... Ah, but more importantly, what did Rickeman have to say?
Haurchefant: More draconian rosaries!? In every single parcel bound for Skyfire Locks? That beggars belief!
Haurchefant: Even the inquisitors must acknowledge that this is no more than a crass attempt to sully House Haillenarte's reputation. Whoever is responsible has overplayed his hand.
Haurchefant: And praise Halone that he did! Lord Francel's trial is upon us, and we must act now if we are to clear his name!




Lv. 38        In the Eyes of Gods and Men
Haurchefant: From the very first, I knew it could not be that so many members of House Haillenarte were heretics. At last, we can give the lie to these poisonous allegations, and put an end to this travesty!
Haurchefant: I will need to prepare a formal statement regarding these developments for the Holy See. In the meantime, I would have you bear my words to Inquisitor Brigie. Tell her that House Fortemps asks─nay, demands that Lord Francel's trial be postponed until a full investigation has been conducted!


Brigie: What is it, my child? Hm? Lord Haurchefant would have the inquisitors do what?
Brigie: But that is not possible. Inquisitor Guillaime presides over Lord Francel's trial at Witchdrop even as we speak.
Brigie: Fear not: if Lord Francel is indeed innocent, he shall walk in Halone's halls with the fallen heroes of Ishgard.


Haurchefant: They have taken Lord Francel to Witchdrop!? This is madness! The inquisitor does not have sufficient grounds to subject him to that manner of trial!
Haurchefant: I will not stand idly by and allow an innocent man to die. Coral, I would dispatch you and one of my knights to Witchdrop to forestall the proceedings until such time as I am able to join you and petition Inquisitor Guillaime in person. I will endeavor not to keep you waiting too long.
Haurchefant: Do whatever you must to keep Lord Francel alive!


Hourlinet: Hail, Coral. As you can see, Lord Francel yet lives. We must try to reason with the inquisitor─but if his guards judge us a threat, we must also be prepared to defend ourselves.


Guillaime: Joacin Charlemend Francel Haillenarte─you stand accused of heresy against the Holy See of Ishgard. Is there aught you wish to say in your defense?
Francel: Hear me, brothers─these charges are false! The men and women of my line have ever opposed the Dravanians, and I am no different! Since the very birth of our nation, we have gladly shed blood in service to the Holy See! Condemn me and you will strike a blow for the enemies of Ishgard!
Guillaime: It is for Halone to judge if you speak the truth.
Guillaime: Prove your innocence in the eyes of gods and men. Leap from the cliff and entrust your fate to the Fury.
Guillaime: The righteous shall take their place in Halone's hall, while the wicked shall reveal their drachen forms and be put to the sword!
Hourlinet: In the name of House Fortemps, I beseech you─stay your hand!
Hourlinet: Inquisitor, we are come on behalf of Lord Haurchefant. My lord has uncovered evidence which suggests that the charges against Lord Francel are without merit.
Hourlinet: We humbly request that these proceedings be suspended until such time as a full reexamination of the facts has been conducted.
Guillaime: Lord Haurchefant has allowed his personal relationship with the accused to cloud his judgment. That he should harbor private doubts, I might have allowed...but that he would dare interfere in legal proceedings sanctioned by the Holy See, I cannot.
Guillaime: To defy the will of an inquisitor is to commit heresy! A crime for which there is but one punishment!
Hourlinet: We must hold them until Lord Haurchefant arrives, Coral! And remember─no harm can come to the inquisitor!


[Battle]
Hourlinet the Devout: Your shield bears no sigil, ser! Do you serve the Holy See or one of the High Houses?
Alderique: I serve a higher power!
Hourlinet the Devout: Look, look! Lord Haurchefant is come!
Haurchefant of the Silver Fuller: In the name of House Fortemps, I demand that you lay down your arms!
Guillaime: By this deed, you do disgrace your line, Lord Haurchefant!
Alderique: Ishgardian scum! Today you shall answer for your sins!
Haurchefant of the Silver Fuller: A wyvern!? But there were no reports of Dravanian activity!
Guillaime: You would call upon your allies to save you!? At last, your treachery is laid bare!
Alderique: This...this will not be forgotten...


[Alderique drops a draconian rosary.]
[The wyvern takes to the skies.]
[You obtain a draconian rosary.]
Hauchefant: What is?


Haurchefant: It is not our intention to defy the will of the archbishop.
Haurchefant: But this trial─like many others, I fear─has been orchestrated by enemies of House Haillenarte. They have used you and your fellows to sow discord, Inquisitor─to set brother against brother, that we may tear ourselves apart.
Guillaime: ...The fevered imaginings of a desperate man. What proof have you of this?
Haurchefant: By the Fury...a draconian rosary! Then the knight who refused to yield─it was he who summoned the wyvern!
Guillaime: A heretic in the ranks of the temple knights. This has grave implications...
Guillaime: Your claims...would appear to have merit, Lord Haurchefant. I shall withdraw my charges against Lord Francel, pending further investigation.
Guillaime: I trust you have not lost sight of that which first brought you to Coerthas, Coral. Pray locate your errant airship...and use it.
Francel: Lord Haurchefant, I have not the words to express my gratitude. But why would you risk your reputation to save mine?
Haurchefant: Because I know you, boy. You're too loyal to betray Ishgard, and too devout to question your sentence. Had we been any slower, you'd have jumped of your own free will.
Francel: I...I would have done whatever it took to redeem House Haillenarte.
Haurchefant: Praise Halone it did not come to that. But it profits us little to dwell on what might have been.
Haurchefant: Let us quit this pla\\\\\\\\\\\\\\ce, Coral. Pray visit me at Camp Dragonhead once you have recuperated.


Haurchefant: You look well, Coral. May I say what a pleasure it was to fight alongside such a fearless and skillful warrior.
Haurchefant: Were it not for you, Lord Francel would surely have died defending the honor of his house─and I might well have perished at the hands of a heretic and his wyvern.
Haurchefant: House Fortemps and House Haillenarte shall never forget your service. Now, let us return to the matter of your missing Enterprise!






Lv. 38        The Final Flight of the Enterprise
Haurchefant: The man with knowledge of the Enterprise awaits you outside. I pray his information proves useful to you.


Discomposed Cataloger: How quickly the commoners' opinions change. They say Lord Francel is innocent now, but just a few days prior...
Discomposed Cataloger: Anyway, you were inquiring as to the whereabouts of an airship last seen in Coerthas several days before the Calamity, yes? Well, it so happens that I was monitoring the night sky at the Observatorium during that period. I recall that a small vessel came from the direction of Gridania and landed somewhere in the far northwest.
Discomposed Cataloger: Relying on my memory alone, I can say no more than that. However, were you to bring me the astroscope log from the evening in question, I could calculate a more accurate location.
Discomposed Cataloger: The log I require is volume six of the 1572 readings. It should be stored with the other past logs on the uppermost floor of the Observatorium, just below the astroscope. I believe it will be a large red leather-bound tome─though you ought to confirm the date and volume number if you are at all unsure.


[NPC Interaction]
Discomposed Cataloger: The past logs are all stored on the uppermost floor of the Observatorium. There's no security, so you can freely peruse them. Of course, even if you did find the correct volume on your own, it would be useless without an astrologian to interpret the data.


Discomposed Cataloger: Did you perchance find the correct log? The sixth volume from 1572? I would understand if you failed─the other catalogers were often careless when returning old volumes to the shelf.
Discomposed Cataloger: My word, you actually found it! <sniff> <sniff> This musty old smell brings back such fond memories... Ah, here we are! If you would permit me a moment to make some calculations...
Discomposed Cataloger: Hmmm... It is as I feared. The ship landed near the Stone Vigil, of all places, which means that the garrison almost certainly seized the vessel and brought it within their walls. If so, then you would need an army of knights to have any hope of securing it.
Discomposed Cataloger: Though Lord Haurchefant is, from all indications, quite fond of you, so mayhap he can lend you a few? In any case, I have done my part. I shall pray for your success, friend.


Haurchefant: What did the cataloger have to say, Coral? Oh, so you've at last located the Enterprise! I believe congratulations are in order.
Haurchefant: The Stone Vigil? Ah...perhaps I spoke too soon. The outpost has been held by the dragons for years, and all access is restricted by decree of House Durendaire.
Haurchefant: I will write a letter to Lord Drillemont of Whitebrim Front and request that he grant you permission to enter. That said, I fear my influence alone will not suffice, so I suggest that you request Lord Francel do the same.
Haurchefant: Now that your business in Camp Dragonhead is concluded, I suspect we may not meet again for some time.
Haurchefant: I wish you well in your journeys, Coral. May Halone guide you.


Francel: Wonderful to see you again, Coral! If there is anything I can do to repay you, name it.
Francel: ...So the airship you seek is likely inside the Stone Vigil. It shames me to say that it too was once an outpost held by House Haillenarte. In the chaos that followed the Calamity, the Dravanian Horde caught us unawares. The fiends have held the outpost ever since.
Francel: As we lack the strength of arms to retake the Stone Vigil, House Durendaire instead has been charged with the duty. Given that, I doubt that my words will carry much weight with Lord Drillemont. Nevertheless, I will write you your letter.
Francel: Before you depart, a word of caution: the cravens who attempted to destroy House Haillenarte have yet to be unmasked. Though their plans were foiled, they doubtless still harbor great hatred towards us─and towards you now as well.


Brunadier: You desire an audience with Lord Drillemont, do you? Hah! I desire a night in a warm bed with my wife, but wishing won't make it so.
Brunadier: What do we have here? Letters from Lords Haurchefant and Francel, is it? A likely─
...Oh, you're serious. Hmmm...what to do, what to do...






Lv. 39        Ye of Little Faith
Brunadier: Your timing could not have been worse, traveler. Lord Drillemont's attentions are focused solely on the Stone Vigil at present.
Brunadier: In any case, it is not my responsibility to escort visitors. Take your letters and show them to...Ser Alboise. Yes, Ser Alboise can surely accommodate you─seek her in the storeroom on the opposite side of the yard.


[NPC Interaction]
Cid: If the Enterprise is indeed inside the Stone Vigil, then we must convince Lord Drillemont to cooperate.
Alphinaud: Time is a resource we can ill-afford to squander. We must gain entrance to the Stone Vigil without further delay.


Alboise: Ser Brunadier bade you speak with me, did he? I know not why he presumed I would be in a better position to help, but I assure you that he is mistaken.
Alboise: Lord Drillemont hasn't the time to spend speaking with low-ranking knights such as I. However, he always has a moment to spare for head chirurgeon Astidien. Why not visit the infirmary upstairs and show your letters to him?
Astidien: Are you here to visit a patient, sir? What's this? Letters of introduction from House Fortemps and Haillenarte...
Astidien: With documents such as these, you needn't seek an escort. Pray proceed to the barracks and speak with Ser Goudernoux. He should know Lord Drillemont's current whereabouts.


Goudernoux: What reason have you for barging into─ Oh, I see. Well, you are in luck─Lord Drillemont is just up these stairs.
Goudernoux: Letters or no, though, I would not expect much. House Durendaire as a whole does not hold adventurers in high regard.
Goudernoux: You had best state your intentions quickly and succinctly. Show proper respect, and it shall be returned in kind.


Drillemont: Ser Goudernoux permitted your passage? Very well. Speak.
Drillemont: You wish to brave a ruined outpost filled with scalekin to secure an airship that may or may not be there. Are you the avatar of the Fury Herself?
Alphinaud: We are the Scions of the Seventh Dawn, Lord Drillemont. You know our name, and you know our deeds.
Alphinaud: We are come to Coerthas to slay Garuda, Lady of the Vortex. To that end, we seek the Enterprise, the airship of Master Cid nan Garlond, who stands before you now.
Drillemont: Master Garlond, you're alive!? But that's impossible!
Guillaime: Indeed it is, my lord.
Guillaime: Do not be deceived by their honeyed words. These foreigners are not to be trusted.
Guillaime: At this critical moment in Ishgardian history, as House Durendaire marshals its forces to retake the Stone Vigil, who should appear in Whitebrim Front but three mysterious strangers...
Guillaime: Cid Garlond─missing and presumed dead since before the Calamity, and two Scions of the Seventh Dawn─a defunct band of misfits recently exterminated by the Empire.
Guillaime: The lesser houses may have been duped by these grandiose lies, but I should hope that House Durendaire would have greater sense. I know not why these three seek the Stone Vigil, but I know that we cannot permit them to pass.
Drillemont: Thank you for your counsel, Inquisitor. For a moment, I nearly believed this mummer's farce.
Drillemont: You three will not enter the outpost until we have reclaimed it─and until you declare your true intentions as well.
Alphinaud: It could be moons before House Durendaire purges the dragons from the Stone Vigil. We cannot afford to wait that long!
Alphinaud: Cid, Coral─we must do whatever it takes to earn Lord Drillemont's trust. Understood?












Lv. 39        Opportunity Knocks
Benedict: Come now, you didn't think it would be that easy to earn Lord Drillemont's trust, did you? Even if you are who you claim to be, it would be reckless for him to believe your story without question.
Benedict: At the very least, you ought to show your support for House Durendaire by culling feral crocs in our stead.
Benedict: A simple gesture like that would probably earn you the respect of Ser Clotairion, as he's always struggling to find men to attend to the task. Why not give it a try?


Clotairion: A little bird tells me that you slew some crocs in an effort to curry my favor. I'm afraid you've been had, sir─that young fellow merely sought to shirk his duties.
Clotairion: Still, your heart was in the right place, and it cannot be denied that the people of Coerthas are better off without those beasts. Very well, I will see that Lord Drillemont is made aware of your deeds.
Clotairion: Do try to understand my lord's position, though. It is his responsibility to ensure that Whitebrim Front is prepared for every eventuality, be it an endless blizzard or a Dravanian assault. He will not put our efforts to retake the Stone Vigil at risk without good cause, which you have yet to give.




Lv. 39        All By Ourselves
Nivie: Oh, it's you! Beg your pardon, sir, but I've heard whispers that you wish to prove yourself trustworthy to Lord Drillemont. Perhaps we can be of service to one another. I am a humble herald of House Haillenarte, you see, and I was to deliver a most important missive to Whitebrim Front.
Nivie: I was traveling along the road when a fearsome flurry of snow began to fall. As the curtains of white descended around me, a sudden gust of wind from the Sea of Clouds tore the parchment from my hands! I fell to my knees and groped blindly, hoping to recover it...but to no avail.
Nivie: It could not have been blown far from the road, but the wilds are treacherous and filled with terrors! I had no choice but to seek shelter here. And so I must ask you to recover the missive and deliver it to Lord Drillemont in my stead.


Drillemont: Did I not make myself clear!? Begone from my sight, foreigner, or I shall have you removed!
Drillemont: A missive? Give me that!
...“Houses Fortemps and Haillenarte hereby formally advise that all restrictions on employing foreign sellswords be─”
Drillemont: Hmph. These are naught more than the ill-conceived notions of a hopeless romantic and a naive lordling. House Durendaire would not even be in this position had not House Haillenarte failed to hold the Stone Vigil!
Drillemont: They would have us pit one horde against another. Nay, I say! We need only Ishgardian steel to cleanse the realm of these godless heathens!


Nivie: Lord Drillemont rejected our proposal, didn't he? I could hear him shouting even from here...
Nivie: Alas, he is not the only one to heap disdain upon House Haillenarte. Ever since we lost the Steel and Stone Vigils, we have been at the mercy of the other High Houses.
Nivie: We should be the ones fighting to reclaim the lost outpost. Yet it is House Durendaire that must pay the price for our failure.
Nivie: But how can I bear Lord Drillemont's harsh words back to Lord Francel? Ah...mayhap I should remain here for the nonce...




Lv. 39        Factual Folklore
Haustefort: You the lad responsible for that commotion upstairs? Aye, word travels fast in Whitebrim Front. I gather you still wish to change Lord Drillemont's mind?
Haustefort: If there's one thing I've learned about the man in my time here, it's that he listens to and respects the opinions of those under his command. Win over the barracks, and he's sure to take notice. How, you ask? That's easy─serve the poor souls decent fare for a change.
Haustefort: The last few supply shipments contained no meat whatsoever, and the knights are rightfully beginning to complain. I'm thinking we could prepare them steaks using mudpuppy tail meat. 'Twouldn't be a quality meal, 'tis true, but it'd be a damn sight better than nothing.
Haustefort: If you've a mind to lend a hand, why not await a lurking mudpuppy in Daniffen Pass? And take this bottle of vinegar; locals say it weakens mudpuppies by clogging their mucous glands, drying their skin.


Haustefort: It didn't work, did it? Aye, I thought it was an idiotic idea...
Haustefort: Oh dear...remind me to never wander near mudpuppy spawning grounds without a bottle of vinegar. Anyroad, this should only take a moment. I'll just need to do this...and this...and voilà! Never seen a man cook steaks that fast, have you? Take these three and distribute them to the hungry knights here and up above.


Ombeline: We ought at least receive a hearty meal before we march off to die in this godsforsaken waste...
Ombeline: Is that a fresh-cooked steak!? Halone's blessings be upon you, my friend! Mudpuppy meat or no, it's the most delicious food I've had in a fortnight!
Theophilain: You there, lad! Don't think I didn't see you and the cook conspiring together! Let me make myself perfectly clear: if you wish to buy my trust with a steak, it would be my pleasure to oblige you!
Theophilain: Mwahahaha! Yes, yes! I feel invigorated, refreshed─as if I have the strength of ten men, and their wits besides. Aye, I should have no trouble concocting a new reason to refrain from sentry duty.
Ignemortel: Ever must we train to maintain our skill at arms, yet never are we to receive proper sustenance!?
Ignemortel: You are a godssend, my friend! Too few appreciate that House Durendaire must do more than its fair share for the sake of Ishgard.
Haustefort: It feels wonderful to see everyone in such high spirits. Amazing what good food can do for morale, eh?
Haustefort: Ah, but I've forgotten about the hardworking chirurgeons at the infirmary─so rarely do they take their meals here in the hall. Mind taking this steak to Cenota? She's doubtless so preoccupied with the health of her patients that she's neglected to attend to her own.


Cenota: Beg your pardon, sir, but I am busy attending to this man. I will be with you in a moment.
Cenota: Is that...? <sniff> <sniff> Come to think of it, it has been quite a while since I last ate. I suppose it wouldn't hurt to have a nibble...
Cenota: Oh my, this is fantastic! Thank you so much! I'll eat the rest right away!






Lv. 39        The Best Inventions
Cid: Might I have a word with you, Coral? It concerns the chirurgeons. After speaking with them earlier, I learned that they lack sufficient alembics for their needs, you see...
Cid: So I used some of their broken equipment to craft a more advanced alembic─both as a gesture of goodwill, and as a means to help me recover my memories, since working with my hands kindles familiar feelings.
Cid: All I require to complete the device are the cores of six ice sprites. Though commonly used to reduce the temperatures of alchemical mixtures, there is a way to alter their properties so that they draw the cold within rather than radiate it without.
Cid: It must sound ridiculous to you─impossible, even. Yet somehow I know it will work.


Cid: Have you obtained the cores? If so, please show them to me.
Cenota: What an amazing device! But...is it truly an alembic, sir? I've never seen its like before.
Astidien: I too am unsure what to make of this machine. While certainly impressive, I've no idea how to make use of it.
Cenota: Nevertheless, if it is as effective as he claims, it will be a great boon to the infirmary! Think of the medicines we could create, the lives we could save!
Astidien: Even so, I wonder...
Guillaime: Ware thee the kindly stranger, bearer of gifts wondrous and strange, for his generosity comes at cost.
Guillaime: Their earnest efforts are but a means to an as-yet-unknown end. Moreover, you should be wary of associating with individuals who have interfered with the questioning of a suspected heretic.
Astidien: They did what!? Bless you, Inquisitor, for coming along when you did! We almost succumbed to the temptation proffered by these...these unbelievers!
Cid: Why does that man detest us so? Is it all because we interrupted Lord Francel's trial?
Cid: Whatever his reasons, he clearly means to oppose us at every turn...




Lv. 40        Influencing Inquisitors
Cid: Before we can persuade Lord Drillemont to help us, it seems we must convince Inquisitor Guillaime that we are not his enemy. But just how might we go about doing that...?
Cid: We know little and less about the good inquisitor, despite him being such a prominent figure in Coerthas. Perhaps we should learn more by speaking with the people of Whitebrim Front.
Cid: Share your findings with Alphinaud in the square. I'm sure he can formulate a strategy from there.


Joellaut: Inquisitor Guillaime? Yes, of course, I know of him. Alas, I have not seen him since the day he came to Whitebrim Front, several moons ago.
Joellaut: My memory is somewhat muddled, but I recall that a blizzard nearly buried us in snow that day, and I had the ill fortune of being assigned to the night's watch. While the stronghold slept, we walked the walls and patrolled the exterior in a darkness black as pitch. 
Joellaut: My route took me outside the eastern gate at one point, where I caught sight of a silhouette illuminated by the light of the city. Thinking it was a wayward traveler, I cried out and gave chase, but slipped and took a terrible fall. When I woke, it was days later in this very bed, where I have lain recuperating from my injuries ever since.
Joellaut: I had tried to rescue him, but in the end Inquisitor Guillaime rescued me, carrying my unconscious body to the gates. I owe him my life, sir, and I hope to one day repay his kindness.
Alboise: Inquisitor Guillaime? I haven't the foggiest of whom you speak...unbeliever. Aye, we have learned of your deeds at Witchdrop. I will not be party to whatever dastardly schemes you've hatched against the inquisitor! Away with you!
Patrick: Under Inquisitor Guillaime's watchful gaze, unprecedented numbers of heretics have been unmasked and brought to justice.
Patrick: They say he goes days without sleep, so great is his devotion. Blessed are we to have such a goodly, righteous man to protect us.
Haustefort: The Holy See has decreed that the inquisitors are the arbiters of Halone's will. They are to be afforded every courtesy and the utmost respect.


Alphinaud: ... <shiver>
Alphinaud: In case you have yet to notice, my attire is ill suited to this climate.
Alphinaud: I realized it soon after our arrival, but paid it no mind as I had hoped we might find the Enterprise far faster. Instead, we've wasted far too much time meddling in local affairs. <sigh>
Alphinaud: Never mind. Our journey is almost at an end. All that remains is to deal with this irksome inquisitor. Cid tells me you have been busy making inquiries, yes?
Alphinaud: ...Hm. It should come as no surprise that he is held in high regard. Even so, I am beginning to suspect he has other reasons for hindering us now.
Alphinaud: Let us more closely review the testimonials you obtained, Coral. Mayhap they will provide insight into Inquisitor Guillaime's motivations.










Lv. 40        By the Lights of Ishgard
Alphinaud: Something troubles me about that wounded knight's account. He claims he fell chasing a figure in the darkness that he saw outside the eastern gate, yes? But the main road leads to the southwestern gate.
Alphinaud: Since we've arrived in Whitebrim Front, I've seen no travelers arrive by the eastern gate. Moreover, he said he glimpsed a “silhouette illuminated by the light of the city,” which would imply that the inquisitor came from north of the eastern gate, not south.
But it cannot be so─that way lies naught but a deep chasm.
Alphinaud: Assuming Ser Joellaut is not misremembering, the inquisitor's behavior that night makes absolutely no sense, at least to me. Mayhap retracing his steps will shed light on this mystery.


Alphinaud: You found something, didn't you? Well, don't keep me waiting in suspense. Let's see it.
Alphinaud: Hmmm... Given the contents of this encyclical, I believe you have just made the acquaintance of the real Inquisitor Guillaime.
Alphinaud: Newly come to Coerthas and murdered on the day of his arrival... Yes, it would have been a simple thing to assume his identity, for even if he were to behave oddly, who would dare question the wisdom of a papal appointment?
Alphinaud: Still, while this is incontrovertible proof that the inquisitor is an imposter, we have yet to discern his true identity, or why he has decided to oppose us.
Alphinaud: We must proceed quickly, Coral, before he learns that his deception has been discovered!




Lv. 40        Blood for Blood
Alphinaud: Since Lord Drillemont has already been turned against us, I fear that this encyclical alone will not serve to convince him of our claims.
Alphinaud: But what might persuade a man so quick to disregard the endorsements of two High Houses?
Alphinaud: The cook did say that the lord listens to and respects the opinions of his knights. If a certain knight were to provide testimony that supports our claim...
Alphinaud: Yes, mayhap that is the only way left to us. Confront Ser Joellaut with the evidence you discovered and see if it helps him to recall the truth of that night.
Alphinaud: As a man of faith, he may find it difficult to cope with such a horrifying revelation. Nevertheless, we must do everything within our power to secure the Enterprise.


Joellaut: Oh, you have returned. Is there something else you wanted to ask?
Joellaut: The inquisitor is an imposter? Don't be preposterous, that could not possibly be true!
Joellaut: He is a paragon of virtue, a dedicated servant of the Fury! You would have me believe that is all a lie!?
Joellaut: If you are so certain that your ludicrous story is true, then go and speak with Ser Prunilla! She was at the eastern gate that night, and she helped the inquisitor carry me here. But I will never speak against the man who saved my life!


Prunilla: You! I...I do not believe I know you, sir. Pray move along and trouble me no more.
Prunilla: Are you in the habit of handing bloody documents to strangers? Why would you show me such a dreadful thing? I know naught of it, naught at all!
Prunilla: ...What? Do you doubt my words? Away with you─I will suffer your slander no more.
Prunilla: You know, don't you? Fury take me, I prayed this day would come...
Prunilla: When Ser Joellaut gave chase, I followed close behind. He didn't fall─one of those Dravanian abominations lashed out at him, nearly killed him right then and there. I drew my sword and rushed to his side, straining to see the enemy. But what came from the dark was not a beast, but a voice.
Prunilla: He...he knew things about me, about my family. Secrets I had never told another. He said that if I kept his confidence, Ser Joellaut and I would be spared. But, if I defied him...everyone I loved would suffer unimaginable horrors before they died.
Prunilla: When at last I agreed to his terms, the man came forward. His robes marked him as an inquisitor, but I knew him to be false. Together, we carried Ser Joellaut to the infirmary, and on his first night in Whitebrim Front “Inquisitor Guillaime” was heralded as a hero...
Prunilla: Soon after came the accusations─countless men and women of good moral standing, seized whilst in possession of draconian rosaries. As I feared, he was condemning the innocent to death. I wanted to confess to Lord Drillemont, wanted to put an end to the madness─but then I would remember the inquisitor's threats. And so I did nothing...until Lord Francel was accused.
Prunilla: Some time ago, I followed the inquisitor and found that he kept draconian rosaries in a chest hidden southeast of Whitebrim Front. So, I took several from his chest and planted them in shipments bound for Skyfire Locks. As I hoped, they were discovered and considered evidence of a conspiracy against House Haillenarte, thus exonerating Lord Francel and casting doubt on the other recent trials. And that is the entire truth, I swear. Halone forgive me for not acting sooner...


Drillemont: Why do you persist in this folly? I will not grant you three access to the Stone Vigil. Do not make me repeat myself.
Drillemont: There had better be a very good explanation for why you were carrying these rosaries. And where did you find this papal encyclical?
Drillemont: Fury take me, the inquisitor is a heretic!? Never before have I heard such an unbelievable tale...but this evidence and your testimony could have no other explanation...
Drillemont: I have misjudged you and your friends, Coral, and for that I deeply apologize. I will permit you to enter the outpost─but first, I must needs beg your assistance. Help me and my knights bring this infernal imposter to justice!






Lv. 40 The Heretic among Us
Drillemont: That thrice-damned heretic has murdered countless innocents, and made a mockery of our laws! Hells take him and his Dravanian allies!
Drillemont: I am told he makes for Snowcloak even now, intending to pass judgment upon yet another poor soul whom he has branded heretic. If we hurry, there may still be time to prevent further tragedy.
Drillemont: Lend me your strength, Coral! Together, let us put an end to this impostor's heresy once and for all!




House Durendaire Knight: Good to have you with us, sir. When Lord Drillemont arrives, we are to confront the inquisitor. If he refuses to go quietly, we will need to use force. Are you prepared for that eventuality?
Guillaime: You needn't tremble so, my child. The righteous shall enjoy everlasting peace in Halone's halls. Only the wicked─
Cornered Expeditioner: But why!? Why must I die!? By all that is holy, I swear to you that I have never questioned the teachings of Halone!
Drillemont: Inquisitor! Release the maid and come with us!
Guillaime: My Lord Drillemont─what is the meaning of this interruption? You are aware that I am at present conducting an interrogation, are you not?
Drillemont: Silence, villain! I name thee Heretic, murderer of Inquisitor Guillaime and countless innocents!
Drillemont: You are a traitor to Ishgard, to your own kith and kin! Your sins are beyond measure─beyond redemption!
Guillaime: Ah...grave allegations indeed. But you will find your logic is flawed. How can I betray that which I owe no allegiance? No, Lord Drillemont─my conscience is quite clear, I assure you.
Guillaime: I wonder...can you say the same? You whose hands are black with the blood of those whose only sin was to question your nation's crazed crusade!
Guillaime: You speak to me of Ishgardian innocents? Hah! All are complicit in these crimes, for all live their lives by the archbishop's lies.
Guillaime: But I know you will not hear me, deafened by dogma as you are. If you desire retribution, Lord Drillemont, then come─let us see how Ishgardian steel fares against Dravanian fang and claw!




[Battle]
Drillemont the Honest: Show the heretic no mercy! He must pay for the innocent blood he has spilled!
Inquisitor Guillaime: Ignorant swine! Soon you will know the futility of your faith!
Drillemont the Honest: Do you see, heretic? You and your allies are no match for the might of Ishgard!
Inquisitor Guillaime: How wrong you are, Ishgardian! I have been blessed with power far beyond your ken!
Inquisitor Guillaime: Come, my brothers─grant me the strength to smite our enemies!
Guillaime: I...am...reborn!
Drillemont the Honest: Stand your ground─'tis but an illusion!
Guillaime: A dragon stands before you, yet still you do not flee!?
Drillemont the Honest: Your magicks have no power over me, heretic!
Guillaime: No...NO! It cannot be!


Guillaime: My glamours...dispelled...
Drillemont: Your plans lie in ruin, heretic. Choose your words wisely, for they will be your last.
Guillaime: <cough> <wheeze> Hah hah... You may not recall the many Ishgardians I have sentenced, but the families of the dead will never forget. Blood has been repaid with blood, and for that I am content.
Guillaime: My...my only regret is that you yet live...
Guillaime: But your end is nigh, foreigner. The dragons within the Stone Vigil will rend you asunder. And when you are dead, Whitebrim Front shall fall...
Drillemont: Defiant to the last. Leave the body for the crows─his ilk deserves naught better.
Drillemont: Coral, I must apologize for involving you in this sordid business. You should never have been asked to intervene in Ishgardian affairs of state.
Drillemont: Rest assured, I have not forgotten the matter which first brought you into our midst. It is past time that you were reunited with your airship.
Drillemont: But this is not the place to discuss such matters. Pray visit me at Whitebrim Front─and bring your associates.


Alphinaud: Where have you been, Coral? ...Hm? The false inquisitor has been slain, has he? Yes, well, his was a tale always like to end in bloodshed.
Alphinaud: Though you have overcome the latest in a long line of unfortunate impediments, I would ask you not to revel in your victory just yet.
Alphinaud: We can celebrate once we have secured the Enterprise!


Lv. 41        In Pursuit of the Past
Alphinaud: As I am sure you will agree, it is past time we entered the Stone Vigil. Pay Lord Drillemont a visit and remind him of his obligation to us─Cid and I will follow anon.


Drillemont: We owe you all a great debt of gratitude. Had it not been for you, the heretic masquerading as Inquisitor Guillaime would still be among us, free to prey upon the innocent.
Drillemont: I see now that I was a fool to dismiss your claims out of hand... But you must understand, it seemed too much to hope that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn still lived, to say nothing of Master Garlond!
Drillemont: Never have I been happier to be proven wrong.
Alphinaud: Well, it is gratifying to know that someone has derived a measure of enjoyment from your error.
Alphinaud: Now, if you have no further objections, we would appreciate it if you would permit us to enter the Stone Vigil and retrieve our airship.
Drillemont: Yes! Yes, of course. It is the very least I can do, given all that you have done for us.
Drillemont: But entering the outpost is the least of your concerns, I fear...
Alphinaud: You speak of the Dravanians that now hold the ruin.
Drillemont: ...In part, yes. I should explain: shortly after you first arrived, I had my men scour the old records. They confirmed that an abandoned airship had been seized by the soldiers garrisoned at the Stone Vigil in the days following the Calamity.
Drillemont: As far as we have been able to ascertain, it was still in their custody when the outpost was overrun by the dragons. Whether it was damaged or destroyed during the battle, I cannot say, nor can I give you any assurances that it has not been removed in the intervening years.
Drillemont: For far too long, the ruin has served as a Dravanian foothold in Coerthas, from which they have struck out at us with depressing regularity.
Drillemont: Though we have pushed them back behind the walls, we have as yet been unable to drive them out, and I cannot say when the situation will change.
Alphinaud: Or how it will change. Forgive me, Lord Drillemont, but there is no guarantee that you will prevail. In any event, we have not the time to wait. We will secure our property without Ishgardian aid.
Drillemont: I see. Well, that may be for the best.
Drillemont: I will inform Ser Nathelain of your impending visit. May Halone guide you, Scions.


Nathelain: Hail, Coral! Lord Drillemont has apprised me of the situation. You may enter the Stone Vigil whensoever you will.








Alphinaud: Look! It's the Enterprise!
Cid: Yes...just beyond that enormous sleeping dragon.
Alphinaud: The dragon is not our concern. We have come for the airship, and only the airship.
Alphinaud: Cid─you and I will sneak aboard the Enterprise and prepare it for launch.
Alphinaud: Coral─you stay here and keep an eye on the beast.
Alphinaud: If it wakes, we may need you to provide a distraction until we are ready to depart. You can manage that, can't you?
Alphinaud: That settles it, then. Shall we, Cid?
Cid: As you command...
Lahabrea: ...So you mean to slay Garuda next? Interesting. Most interesting.
Lahabrea: And you are aware that her strength greatly exceeds that of your previous primal conquests? ...A testament to the fanatical devotion of her followers. The Ixal are nothing if not zealous.
Lahabrea: In spite of your past achievements, I labor to believe that you will best this foe.
Lahabrea: Yet only a fool would underestimate the great Bringer of Light, slayer of Ifrit, bane of Titan...
Lahabrea: If any mortal is capable of defeating the Lady of the Vortex, it is you.
Lahabrea: Win or lose, the battle should at least make for an entertaining spectacle.
...Assuming, of course, you live that long.
Cid: Alphinaud! The dragon!
Alphinaud: Confound it all!
Lahabrea: Let us see how well your blasphemous gifts serve you this time, crystal bearer!




[Received the Fifth Crystal]




Alphinaud: Coral! Coral! Are you all right? Speak to me!
Alphinaud: Twelve be praised, I feared the beast had injured you.
Alphinaud: I see now why the others rated you so highly. When you were caught in the midst of that aetheric bubble with the dragon, I was all but certain my next mission would be to find a new champion.
Alphinaud: Thank the gods for sparing me that inconvenience. I have quite enough to do already. Which reminds me─Cid is working on the Enterprise as we speak. Let us go and see what he has to say.
Alphinaud: What say you, Cid? Will she fly?
Cid: Yes...though it will not be a pleasant ride.
Alphinaud: Well, I daresay it will be no more unpleasant than staying here. 'Tis a pity the Enterprise is not in a better state, but if she will allow us to quit this place, I shall not complain.
Alphinaud: If all are in agreement, let us return to Gridania.
Alphinaud: Though I would like nothing more than to set course for the Howling Eye, it is plain the Enterprise is in no condition to weather the storm. She must needs be repaired if we are to proceed with our mission.
Cid: This is all so familiar. I...I know this airship. If I could just...
Cid: Bah, it's no use.
Cid: ...Let's go.
Alphinaud: Ah, how I have longed for the more agreeable climate of the Twelveswood.
Alphinaud: Yet I will not deny the Holy See had its charms. Endless detours aside, our Ishgardian jaunt proved quite an adventure!
Alphinaud: Alas, our work is far from done. We still have an airship to repair and a primal to slay. No rest for the heroic, eh?






Lv. 41        Into the Eye of the Storm
Cid: It calms me to look at her.
Cid: It's as though I've been reunited with a part of me I never knew was missing...
Alphinaud: Hardly surprising. You did design and build her.
Alphinaud: I bear good news! The Seedseers have granted our request to house the Enterprise. We may take as long as we require to repair her.
Alphinaud: Of course, it would be rank folly to take one moment more than we require. Garuda, lest we forget, grows stronger by the hour. If we are to have any hope of wresting this benighted realm from her talons, it must needs be soon.
Alphinaud: Though I am no expert on the workings of airships, it seems plain to me that the Enterprise suffered much from her time in the wilderness. Am I not correct, Cid?
Cid: You are. Frankly, it's a miracle she carried us this far.
Alphinaud: As you know, the Howling Eye is encircled by a raging tempest, apt to turn proud trees to matchwood. Our battle will end before it begins if the Enterprise cannot weather the storm.
Cid: Given time, I believe I can fully repair her...
Cid: But if this tempest is as fearsome as you say, even that may not be enough.
Alphinaud: <sigh> Confound it. There must be a way...a way to brave the fury of the elements...
Cid: ...The elements. But of course! That's it!
Cid: We work upon the element itself! Using the power of a corrupted crystal, we could clear a path through the storm, and spare the Enterprise a battering!
Alphinaud: I see! You propose to utilize the properties of a crystal to alter the elemental aspect of the barrier! It seems so childishly simple in retrospect!
Alphinaud: Though mayhap not to you, Coral. We speak of the manifestations of over-aspected aether that can be found throughout Eorzea.
Alphinaud: Since the Calamity disrupted the land's aetheric currents, such crystals have become comparatively commonplace.
Alphinaud: ...Which has been a cause of great woe, as they are known to warp aetheric energies, including those of living organisms.
Cid: The point is, we could theoretically use a corrupted crystal to convert the wind-aspected aether comprising Garuda's barrier into aether of another aspect─one she cannot control.
Cid: With certain modifications, the Enterprise should be able to deliver us to the Howling Eye in comfort, however hard Garuda blows...


Alphinaud: But we are getting ahead of ourselves. All of this rests upon our ability to procure a crystal with the necessary properties. Have you any idea where we might acquire one?
Cid: No. But I know a man who might. A scholar by the name of Laberteint, who resides in Camp Drybone.
Cid: Strange as it may sound, I met him during my time at the church. Well, Marques met him, I suppose. Whether out of pity, or for want of a more willing listener, he would talk to me for hours at a time about his aetheric studies, corrupted crystals being his pet subject. It was as a result of these conversations that poor Marques was observed to possess an uncommon knack for theoretical science...
Alphinaud: Coral, I need you to return to Thanalan and seek out this scholar. Cid and I will set about repairing the Enterprise in your absence.


[NPC Interaction]
Cid: When I look at her, I feel as though I've come home. I can think of no other way to express it.
Alphinaud: Why do you tarry, Coral? Our work is not yet finished! We must press onward, until the harpy queen lies broken at our feet!


Lamberteint: Hm? Why yes, I am Professor Lamberteint. Beg pardon? You wish to hear about my research on corrupted crystals? ...Truly? Well, nothing would give me greater pleasure than to discuss my work with a fellow man of science!






Lv. 41        All Due Precautions
Lamberteint: Ahhh, so rare it is to find fellow intellectuals in this region. 'Tis even rarer to find one capable of comprehending the nature of corrupted crystals.
Lamberteint: Come to think of it, there was another─a hermit to whom the church had given sanctuary. Curious fellow. Unsociable, rather daft at first impression, yet possessed of an amazing affinity towards the scientific pursuits...
Lamberteint: But to the matter at hand─did you say you wish not to conduct field observations, but to harvest a corrupted crystal?
Lamberteint: Egads, man! At least take the necessary precautions so that you do not suffer from exposure to its harmful energies! I'm beginning to wonder if you've sufficient qualifications to handle such hazardous materials...
Lamberteint: Still, your ignorance is somehow endearing. If you bring me a suitable vessel─say, a common clay pot─I shall coat it with an alchemical sealant of mine own design. Simply store the crystal you seek within this pot to protect yourself from its deleterious effects.
Lamberteint: Hm? Where might you find a clay pot? Well, I'm hardly a merchant, but surely some fellow at the Golden Bazaar has some for sale.


Munificent Merchant: You get a pot! And you get a pot! Everyone gets a pot! Ahem, sorry─I get a bit carried away when disposing of old merchandise. Anyroad, take my pot, please.








Lamberteint: Fascinating...even accounting for the unusually strong aetherial currents in this region, the crystalline formations are─ Oh, you've returned! Any luck finding a pot like I suggested?
Lamberteint: Well, this is indeed an unremarkable piece of rubbish! But for our purposes, it shall suffice.






Lv. 41        Sealed with Science
Lamberteint: With a liberal application of my alchemical sealant, this sorry excuse for earthenware will be reborn as a corrupted crystal containment device!
Lamberteint: Now observe as this scholar skillfully─oho, almost dropped that─skillfully coats the interior of this pot just so... There, it's finished! You no longer need fear the crystal's transformative energies.
Lamberteint: Though I suppose you will be bombarded with its energies until you place it within the vessel...
Lamberteint: Well, perhaps it shall motivate you to work quickly. In any case, I would now have you take the warded pot to Hahasako, a student of mine monitoring the flow of aether at Highbridge. Explain to him your quest, and he shall instruct you in the finer points of crystal harvesting.


Hahasako: How many times must I be made to explain myself!? I am not contemplating suicide, you imbecile─I have chosen this precise position to perform scientific measurements!
Hahasako: What have we here...a containment vessel!? Why, this is the handiwork of Professor Lamberteint! You thieving knave, I shall call for the─ Oh, made especially for you by the man himself...
Hahasako: Then you must have sought me out per his instruction...which means he believes me experienced enough to expound upon his explanations! At last, the recognition I so rightfully deserve!






Lv. 41        With the Utmost Care
Hahasako: O frabjous day! Callooh! Callay! That I should be chosen to guide this man. Yes, I, Hahasako, greatest of Professor Lamberteint's pupils, shall see that you successfully quarry your quarry.
Hahasako: Your timing is impeccable, in fact, for I was just preparing to procure corrupted crystals from the Burning Wall for my personal research.
Hahasako: There, the devastating destruction caused by the Calamity has blessed us with a bounty of sublime specimens.
Hahasako: But something tells me that naught but a perfect piece will satisfy your high standards. In which case, you must needs descend to the deepest depths. Amidst the flowing waters and the murderous mirrorknights lies the most fantastic formation I have found thus far.
Hahasako: Take this highly advanced researcher's tool and use it to separate a small fragment from the large cluster. Place it within the warded pot and bear it back to me for inspection.
Hahasako: The path which leads from Burgundy Falls to the base of the Burning Wall is treacherous and terrifying, but advance with appropriate caution and you shall surely survive.


Hahasako: I see you've come galumphing back. Have you the crystal then?
Hahasako: What a prodigiously large and lovely crystal! Professor Lamberteint will doubtless chortle with joy when you present it to him in person. Oh, and upon your return, do remember to recount how I helped you with your harvesting.


Lamberteint: My keen scholar's sense tells me that you've obtained a corrupted crystal. Am I right?
Lamberteint: If you would grant me a moment to examine the crystal... Ah, it is as you desired. A corrupted crystal overflowing with wind-aspected aether.
Lamberteint: Hmmm... Remind me, for what purpose did you intend to use this crystal again? What!? To breach a barrier comprised of wind-aspected aether? Oh dear... That may prove problematic, as this crystal would only serve to strengthen the barrier.
Lamberteint: I suppose I am at fault for not inquiring as to your objectives from the start. Had I known your intent, I would have never sent you to Hahasako.
Lamberteint: But what is science if not trial and error? And can you truly say that this failure has taught you nothing?
Lamberteint: Think, man─you now understand the methods necessary to safely collect a corrupted crystal! You will doubtless have no difficulty doing so once more.
Lamberteint: What's more, the crystal you collected can serve as an invaluable resource for the aetherial studies conducted by the Students of Baldesion.
Lamberteint: You've heard of them? Well, I don't mean to boast, but I've a professional relationship with the organization. Not as equals, of course─I would never be so bold as to claim that level of expertise...
Lamberteint: Are you all right? Your eyes seem to have glazed over for a moment. Anyway, I shan't keep you from your task. You've still a corrupted crystal to find!




Lv. 41        A Promising Prospect
Lamberteint: Corrupted crystals of sufficient size and strength are not all that common, I fear. Fortunately, one of my other students, Ceana, claims to have discovered another promising site in eastern La Noscea.
Lamberteint: Wait, that's not correct. Eastern La Noscea was where she was nearly killed when wandering too close to an imperial castrum. Hah hah, now that made for an amusing anecdote!
Lamberteint: It was western La Noscea─Pharos Sirius, on the Isles of Umbra, to be precise.
Lamberteint: I can't recall her exact reasoning─something to do with one of Dalamud's Talons or some such nonsense. What I can say for certain is that she is still in Aleport, attempting to gain access to the isles.
Lamberteint: Why not travel there and see if Ceana's inquiries bear fruit? If you can look past the crass and violent ways of the local pirates, you might find your time there to be quite pleasurable. Oh, and do not forget to take your makeshift warded pot, lest she think you unprepared for the task.




Ceana: Eh? Corrupted crystals!? Sir, I've no interest in being the butt of your jokes, so if you've no other reason for addressing me, kindly leave me be.
Ceana: Well, I'll be damned, Professor Lamberteint did send you! Beg your pardon, it seems we got off on the wrong foot.
Ceana: I'm Ceana─greatest of the professor's pupils, which is doubtless why he bid you seek me out. Indeed, I am an accomplished scholar with an extensive background in─
Ceana: <yawn> Oh gods, just listen to me prattle on and on. I must have given this introduction a dozen times by now...




Lv. 42        It’s Probably Not Pirates
Ceana: As I told the professor in my many missives, I believe that the area surrounding Pharos Sirius is replete with corrupted crystals of exceptional strength.
Ceana: Unfortunately, I've yet to test my hypothesis, as all access to the Isles of Umbra is prohibited at present, for reasons unknown to me. You see, my attempts to acquire this information are often met with annoyance and disdain. It's rather puzzling, since I always take the time to explain my motivations in great detail to the subjects of my questioning.
Ceana: Mayhap you will have better luck wresting information from these Yellowjackets. I've all but given up at this point.


Q'ahnebb: Ah, you startled me! Don't you know better than to sneak up on a person at a time like this, what with all this fatuous gossip of spirits and specters haunting the Isles of Umbra!? Just because I know it's nonsense doesn't make it any less frightening!
Firkmann: Yer keen on travelin' to the Isles of Umbra? Bloody 'ells, lad, are ye drunk or jus' crazy? Ain't nothin' there but death, death, an' more death!
Alza Gamilza: The Isles of Umbra? What interest have you in that godsforsaken place? Ever since we were forced to abandon Pharos Sirius, the isles have become naught more than a graveyard for ships unable to navigate the shores─and a purgatory for the souls dragged down to the depths with 'em.


Ceana: Ah, Coral, you've returned! Tell me of your findings.
Ceana: R-R-Really!? Infested with the undead, you say. That...that is a very, very interesting development. Excuse me for a moment while I gather my thoughts.




Lv. 42        Representing the Representative
Ceana: W-W-Worry not, my friend! I've given your findings some thought, and I've concluded that this talk of spirits is naught more than local folklore. As for why all travel to the Isles of Umbra is restricted, well...mayhap it's considered too dangerous, owing to the abandonment of Pharos Sirius?
Ceana: Yes, well, anyway─while you were questioning those Yellowjackets, I paid a visit to the local pub, since even an esteemed scholar like myself enjoys dulling her wits on occasion.
Ceana: It was there that I heard tell of a man named Skyfryn, who was recently detained after returning from─wait for it─the Isles of Umbra!
Ceana: This is the first I've heard of someone actually traveling to and from there, so I'm curious as to how he obtained permission. Mind having a chat with him in my stead? He was arrested, after all, so I'm somewhat reticent to approach him myself...


Skyfryn: I...I have to go back. She calls to me...sings to me...
Skyfryn: Ugh... Tell Mimidoa I'm sorry. Give him this. He was...he was right...
Skyfryn: Or...or you could release me? Yes...yes...release me. I will go and tell her... Let me...let me go to her...
Skyfryn: I...I hear you, my love. Wait for me...


Ceana: What did Skyfryn have to say? Hm, that's not terribly helpful. I couldn't care less how much he misses his favorite barwench. But what was that about a man named Mimidoa?
Ceana: Wait...I know that name! That's that bastard who grabbed my arse the other day at the pub! Well, if you want to give him that feather, be my guest─I'm not going anywhere near him and his wandering hands.


Mimidoa: 'Nother 'nitiate, are ye? No? Then what are ye? Speak up, son, I can't hear ye!
Mimidoa: Eh!? Bugger me, is this what I think it is? Nah, couldn't be... Ye found this, ye say? Where'd ye say ye found it?
Mimidoa: Skyfryn, ye say? Was hopin' to have a word with the lad, but it sounds like there's naught left 'twixt his ears. He was s'posed to help patch up Pharos Sirius, he was. Company sent me to supervise the lot of 'em.
Mimidoa: Weren't gettin' work done on their own, see─half of 'em walked off, half of 'em ran off, an' half of 'em up an' vanished.
Mimidoa: What's that? Ye be lookin' fer passage to the Isles of Umbra!? Why didn't ye say so─I've been thinkin' o' dispatchin' someone to take a look on behalf of ol' Mimidoa. Tell him how the land lies.
Mimidoa: Ain't nobody been interested till you came a-callin'. Whole port's up in arms 'bout spirits an' so forth. If I had the gil, I'd hire some sellswords an' let 'em sort it out...
Mimidoa: But ye'll do in a pinch, ye will. Show this parchment to the skipper an' he'll see ye there an' back.


Ceana: So you went and had a word with Mimidoa. I hope the valuable time you saw fit to waste amounted to something.
Ceana: You mean that disgusting creature was Skyfryn's superior? I find that hard to believe. But this writ of passage does appear to be genuine, so it must be true...
Ceana: I must say, it is a relief to work with such an industrious man as you. I look forward to hearing of the discoveries you will make on the Isles of Umbra...without me.


Lv. 42        The Reluctant Researcher
Ceana: <sigh> Fine, fine! I fail to see the justification for dragging me along on your journey, but if you insist, I will go as well.
Ceana: But Twelve as my witness, if you leave me behind to be devoured by some horrid abomination, I...I shall come back to haunt you!


Ferry Skipper: Hah! “Take me to the Isles of Umbra,” he bids! As if it's as simple as─ Oh, I see you've got a writ of passage. All right, then, climb aboard.


Ceana: Th-Th-This doesn't seem all that bad...
Ceana: I'm not saying I'd like to build a summer home here, but─ Oh, the hells with this. Here, take your pot and go on without me.
Ceana: You've harvested corrupted crystals before, right? So it isn't as though you require my assistance. Speak to the man guarding the gate─I'm sure he'll let you in. Now, if you would please excuse me...


Davyd: Beg your pardon, sir, but how did you come here? Access to this island is currently restricted...
Davyd: An old pot? I'm not sure I follow. ...Oh, I see. You wish to harvest a corrupted crystal. Sorry, friend, but you may have to return empty-handed.




Lv. 42        Sweet Somethings
Davyd: The writ Master Mimidoa gave you may grant you access to the island, but only authorized personnel may proceed past this point. Why, you ask? Look up and see for yourself.
Davyd: When that giant mass of crystal struck the lighthouse, it caused severe damage to both the structure and the machinery within that once powered the beacon.
Davyd: Aye, contrary to what the smallfolk would have you believe, the fires of Pharos Sirius were not the product of a mage's thaumaturgy or a colossal arcane bomb, but an elaborate contraption fueled by aetherial energy.
Davyd: Repairs are still ongoing, but it's anyone's guess when they'll be complete. What's worse, all work has ceased since rumors of the walking dead drove off our entire crew.
Davyd: Not that those rumors are incorrect─I've observed the fiends from a distance, at the Ship Graveyard to the south. What's drawn them to our shores is still a mystery, though.
Davyd: I'll make you a deal, Coral: help me unravel this mystery, and I'll bring you your corrupted crystal. In fact, I shall begin searching for one that satisfies your requirements.
Davyd: As for where to begin your inquiries into the situation, it so happens that a party of three adventurers came ashore not long ago, seeking to scavenge valuable trinkets at the Ship Graveyard. I'd be surprised if they knew nothing of the undead infestation, so it might behoove you to question them.


Erapi Taropi: You saw 'em too, right? Dead people. Just shambling about, without a care in the world. Except when they do seem to care, that is, and start shuffling towards the water...
Ahlduwil: Itsh all there fer the takin'! Five bleedin' yearsh worth of wrecks and their cargo. But thoshe queer dead thingsh...and that voice... Actually, the voice was quite nice...
Louis: Gods, that voice, that single fleeting verse... I can still hear it... Stay clear of the southern shore, friend. It took every onze of my strength to resist.
Davyd: Hmmm... This talk of an alluring voice is disturbingly familiar, as if... But that's impossible, they're all dead...aren't they?






Lv. 42        History Repeating
Davyd: ...But if they have returned, that would mean─ Oh, beg your pardon, I was just, um...thinking about something.
Davyd: Which reminds me─I received word that Master Mimidoa would be arriving any moment.
Davyd: Apparently, he grew tired of waiting for the “lanky young lad with the thousand-yalm stare” to return─which I'm assuming is you.
Davyd: I don't know what sort of arrangement you had, but you should probably go and explain yourself.


Mimidoa: What's been keepin' ye, 'nitiate? I ain't gettin' any younger, ye know...
Mimidoa: Eh? Some honey-voiced harlot's been callin' out to folk what wander near the Ship Graveyard? An' it's stirred up the dead an' all?
Mimidoa: Bloody hells... This takes me back to me days as a cannonboy, sailin' under ol' Mistbeard...
...But they wouldn't dare, would they? Not after the lesson we learned 'em last time... Bah, they bloody would, though, wouldn't they, brazen ol' biddies...
Mimidoa: <sigh> Some folk said as the first purge would be the last, but I knew...knew deep down in me bones as this day would come. An' come it has. Aye...I'd bet me bum ear a siren's behind all this.
Mimidoa: Nay, not one o' the Sanguine variety, 'nitiate. I speak o' the other kind─them what's got feathers, an' lure sailors to a watery grave with their sweet, sweet song.
Mimidoa: Ohhh, but it don't end there... No, drownin's just the start. See, even in death, a man stays bound to the beast, forced to do her biddin' 'til his corpse can't do it no more.
Mimidoa: 'Tis a fate I wouldn't wish on me worst enemy─'cept maybe in drink, an' I'd regret it after. Anyroad, 'tis up to us to stop this hells-born hussy afore she takes another soul!
Mimidoa: 'Course, we can't send ye marchin' off to war without these. The siren don't have no power o'er a man as can't hear her song. 'Tis lucky fer you I carry a spare pair─an' lucky fer the both of us I'm a superstitious ol' sod, eh?
Mimidoa: Well, she ain't comin' to us, so we'd best head o'er to her. To the Ship Graveyard, 'nitiate!


Mimidoa: If she passes near the shore, she's sure to spy the campfire an' come lookin'... Just a matter o' waitin', now.


Mimidoa: <yawn> Hmph. I'm beginnin' to wonder if some sly bugger ain't spun us a yarn, here...
Mimidoa: Quiet! D'ye hear that? 'Tis her!
Mimidoa: Look! Out o'er the water! She's come, 'nitiate! She's come!
Mimidoa: Quick,lad─shove them plugs in yer ears, an' get ready fer a fight! Soon as she realizes yer deaf to her ditties, she'll call on her thralls, an' we'll be up to our necks in corpses afore ye know it!


[Battle]
Siren: ...hither...embrace...mine everything...all...♪
Siren: ...true love spurned...his cruelty's reward...♪
Siren: Cast out...callous soul...dead to desire...♪
Siren: Spare...mournful mistress...distress...♪
Siren: ...melody...last breath...of death...the rhythm...♪
Siren: Dost thou not...to relent...regret...forever alone...♪
Siren: My love...a river...one look...soul shiver...♪
Siren: No more...dark...eclipse...the heart...♪


Mimidoa: Eh? Am I all right? Hah! I'm better'n that, 'nitiate! Happy as a sailor in a whorehouse, I am! ...'Course, I'd be happy as a sailor with two wotsits if we'd gutted the songstress─but ye can't have everythin', can ye?
Mimidoa: She'll not come croonin' 'round here again, though─not fer a while, anyroad. An' if she does...well, we know what to do, don't we?
Mimidoa: Thanks for the help, uh... Bugger me, I've clean forgot yer name! Remind me. Coral? Don't recall havin' no 'nitiate by that name. But if yer not me ol' mate, er...wossname, why've ye been so bloody helpful? Ah, never mind. Be seein' ye, lad.


Davyd: You mean it was a siren!? But how were you able to resist her song? ....I see. I had heard that Master Mimidoa was involved in the first purge, but I never actually... Hm.
Davyd: Having survived an ordeal like that, I can't blame him for carrying earplugs around with him...
Davyd: Anyway, I have something for you: the corrupted crystal you wanted, safely sealed within the pot, just as you requested. Please, take it with my compliments.


Ceana: Oh, it's you! Welcome back, Coral. You're looking remarkably hale, I must say─and, more importantly, alive! You are alive, aren't you?
Ceana: Aha! The conquering hero returns bearing a gift! Might I have a closer look?
Ceana: Impressive...very impressive indeed. Yes...I think you'll be quite pleased with this specimen.
Ceana: Congratulations, Coral! Seldom if ever have I encountered a corrupted crystal composed of such a volatile overabundance of fire-aspected aether.
Ceana: What? You wanted a corrupted crystal composed of ice-aspected aether to counteract the effects of a raging wind? Ah...ahaha. Well, this specimen won't help you there. Anyone who knows anything about the elements could tell you that. You'll just have to keep looking, I suppose!


Lv. 43        The Curious Case of Giggity
Ceana: Don't fret, now─I know exactly where to find a corrupted crystal comprised of ice-aspected aether. An associate of mine in Gridania has been studying the effects of one such crystal on living beings.
Ceana: Eh? What's with that expression? I thought you would be pleased to hear this news! This is not another wild-dodo chase, I assure you!
Ceana: And what's even better is that this time, you needn't use that warded pot of yours to protect yourself from this crystal's energies. Hedyn's findings suggest that it is quite safe.
Ceana: Why, you ask? Well...let's just say that it has undergone a unique process that has rendered such precautions unnecessary.
Ceana: Anyway, do not let me keep you. It has been a pleasure, Coral. Come back and see me sometime, all right?


Hedyn: Greetings and salutations. Mister Ferrinas, I presume? Ceana informed me of your adventures in Aleport. Terribly sorry about the misunderstanding. Though, as Professor Lamberteint is fond of saying, “No action taken in the name of science is ever truly wasteful.”
Hedyn: To the matter at hand─corrupted crystals possessing the properties you seek could be found in abundance at the Standing Corses following the Calamity.
Hedyn: Alas, that is no longer the case...and while there is at least one suitable crystal that remains to be found within the Twelveswood, precisely where it is at any given moment is more difficult to say.
Hedyn: Permit me to explain. You are familiar with spriggans, yes? The furry little rascals that are wont to seek out ores and other stones? Well, one such creature with an infamously insatiable appetite has single-handedly devoured every corrupted crystal in the Twelveswood. Fortunately for you, these crystals take an eternity to digest─assuming they can even be digested─and I am reasonably confident that one still resides within his gut.
Hedyn: It's quite fascinating, really. My theory is that this Giggity first consumed a corrupted crystal when... <sigh> You couldn't care less about all this, could you?
Hedyn: To the point, then. Giggity has grown so ravenous that even his fellow spriggans now fear for their safety. Some have gone so far as to petition the other inhabitants of the Twelveswood for succor.
Hedyn: In fact, the other day, I heard that a spriggan had been spotted in the vicinity of Little Solace. I propose that you find this wayward creature and use him to track down and slay Giggity. I can think of no better method to locate the rampaging beast, can you?


Komuxio: This one is pleased to see walking one! Has time come for this one to wreak furious vengeance upon imperial ones!?
Komuxio: Oh, so walking one seeks furry ones? This one just saw furry one wandering about. Was very worried for furry one─worried for furry one's safety!












Lv. 43        Of Sylphs and Spriggans
Komuxio: Furry one came to Little Solace in search of helpful ones. Asked these ones for aid and succor.
Komuxio: But these ones could not do what furry one asked, so furry one went elsewhere─went north into Larkscall.
Komuxio: This one tried to warn furry one, but furry one would not listen! Many vile ones lurk to the north, and touched ones too!


Tiggy : Tiggy greet sylph! Sylph bad sylph! Friend save Tiggy! Frieeeeeend!
Tiggy go back! Back to good sylph!


Komuxio: Walking one is ever most helpful one! Furry one Tiggy spoke highly of walking one's bravery. But this one wonders why walking one first sought to find furry ones.
Komuxio: Walking one seeks furry one Giggity!? Even these ones have heard tell of hungry one!
Komuxio: Furry one Tiggy asked these ones to hunt hungry one. But these ones have not means to do so.
Komuxio: Furry ones crave ores, yes? But hungry one is clever─clever and cautious.
Komuxio: If walking one wishes to catch hungry one, walking one must use very rare, very special ore.
Komuxio: This one knows little and less of ore, but walking one Maerwynn at Sanctum of Twelve does. Walking one should seek aid of goldsmithing one.


Maerwynn: Yes? What is it? Ah, so you wish to lure out that rampaging spriggan with a rare ore.
Maerwynn: Hmmm... I have an idea, although it is a bit unorthodox and convoluted...






Lv. 43        Crazy Enough to Work
Maerwynn: A chert golem was recently sighted near the gates to the Sylphlands. Who created it and why it was left free to roam is anyone's guess. In any case, the construct's presence is profoundly serendipitous, for the soulstone of a chert golem is created by enchanting a chunk of true heart ore. True heart, in case you were unaware, is an exceedingly rare ore, one which Giggity has almost certainly never tasted, and will therefore be unable to resist.
Maerwynn: So, all you need do is search for the golem, slay it, claim its heart, and use it to bait the spriggan. Oh, and do remember to rub the soulstone against a sufficiently large concentration of amber, say, Amberscale Rock in the Central Shroud. Short of petitioning a mage versed in golem magicks, that is the only way I know to dispel the enchantments woven into a true heart. Eh? Why are you looking at me like that? I had relations with a thaumaturge once, if you must know.


Tiggy: Tiggy follow friend! Friend! Frieeeeeend!
Tiggy: Ore!? Shiny ore! Ore, ore, ore! Ooooooooore!
Tiggy: Tiggy ore!? Ah! Giggity ore! Friend stop Giggity! Giggity, Giggity, Giggityyyyyy!
Tiggy: Giggity is home! Tiggy is afraid! Friend come home! Friend stop Giggity!


Hedyn: Ah! Pray do not sneak up on me like that. I was engrossed in─wait, what is that─<sniff> <sniff>─what is that gods-awful smell?
Hedyn: My word, that is a breathtakingly beautiful crystal. I see my supposition was not mistaken.
Hedyn: Ugh... And I also see you weren't averse to digging through spriggan entrails for your prize.
Hedyn: We owe our furry friend a debt of gratitude, you know. This thick coating of digestive juices is protecting us from the harmful effects of the crystal, just as the warded pot you once used did.
Hedyn: Why so glum, friend? You've finally obtained the corrupted crystal you sought─one overflowing with earth-aspected aether!
Hedyn: Calm down─I jest, I jest! It is comprised of ice-aspected aether, worry not. I suppose that joke was in poor taste, considering your previous two attempts were for naught...






Lv. 43 Better Late than Never
Hedyn: Beg your pardon, Coral─I forgot to return your crystal to you.
Hedyn: Oh, and there was a message for you from Professor Lamberteint. Something about a man named Marques? Apparently the professor misses the intellectual stimulation. Forgive me, I should have written it down.
Hedyn: It occurs to me that I have yet to ask why you needed that crystal. You aren't planning anything nefarious, are you? 'Twould reflect poorly on me and my research if it was used for evil ends...
Hedyn: Ah, well, perhaps it's best I remain ignorant. I didn't become the professor's greatest pupil by filling my head with unnecessary information.


Cid: All repairs and modifications have been completed, Coral. Once you bring me that crystal, nothing will stand between us and Garuda.
Cid: I'll need to run some tests to be sure, but this looks to be exactly what we need.
Cid: Worry not, Coral. I'll see that your hard work doesn't go to waste.
Cid: The Enterprise is already more than a common airship. But mark my words: soon it will become something greater, something extraordinary.
Cid: This...this is me. This is what I was born to do.




Lv. 44        Lady of the Vortex


Cid: According to my tests, the device is now functioning in perfect harmony with the crystal─meaning we can leave whenever you're ready.
Cid: But you must understand: tests can only tell one so much.
Cid: Until we approach the Howling Eye─until we attempt to breach the barrier itself...I cannot be sure that this will work.
Cid: I think it only fair to tell you that there is a small but statistically significant chance that the crystal could trigger a massive...
Cid: Hmm... Mayhap it is better that we remain positive.
Cid: Coral, I want to thank you. For reuniting me with my ship, for trusting in me to develop this plan...for everything. You've helped me to rediscover a part of myself I'd forgotten. I am not the man I once was, and I do not know if I ever shall be...but I do know one thing: this feels right.
Cid: ...My apologies for the sudden outpouring of sentiment. I would have waited until after the mission, but...well, you understand.




Cid: There...she's ready...
Alphinaud: Ah, she stirs...
Alphinaud: To Coerthas! And an audience with the harpy queen Garuda!
Alphinaud: Enterprise...engage!
Cid: Phew...
Cid: Damn it!
Cid: I once flew in this airship. And I was not alone.
Cid: There were adventurers on board...adventurers like you.


[Flashback]
Cid: Just how long have I worn these damn goggles?
Cid: Ah, yes. I fancied myself a trendsetter in my younger days.
Cid: The young prodigy, admired by all...exactly like his father.
Cid: Born and raised in Garlemald...
Cid: It was only natural that the precocious young student should become an engineer. Had his father not done the same?
Cid: Father... When did we stop seeing eye to eye?
Cid: When did Meteor become your everything, and your loved ones cease to matter?
Cid: You abandoned us all. But he was there for me, Father─there for me when you were not.
Cid: Though he proved no better in the end. Gaius was just another man with an all-consuming obsession.
Cid: And so I ran─left the Empire behind and came to Eorzea, where I built the Ironworks.
Cid: Ah, yes! It was then that I first donned these goggles.
Cid: Eorzea opened my eyes. It was home to so many manner of people, each with their own hopes and dreams. People worth saving. And so I fought beside them.
Cid: I wanted to prove that my knowledge could serve a nobler purpose.
Cid: I wanted to prove that there was another way...
Cid: And it all began that day, when I found my new home…


[Flashback End]
Cid: I had forgotten how wonderful it was. The wind in your hair, the endless sky...
Cid: That light─it was you, wasn't it?
Cid: It's surprising how few people know this, but all pureblood Garleans have a third eye.
Cid: Perhaps mine helped me recognize you─or perhaps it was just a lucky guess.
Cid: The Enterprise was made for this! To carry Eorzea's protectors into battle!
Cid: I am proud to be able to call her my own.
Alphinaud: Cid─what exactly do you remember?
Cid: Alphinaud, my boy─sorry to have been such a burden.
Cid: I remember everything...
Cid: My name, my people, and my purpose. Everything.
Cid: Come! It would be rude to keep Garuda waiting!


Alphinaud: All our efforts...all our travails...all of it was for this.
Alphinaud: Make ready, Coral, for the end is nigh─be it hers or our own.
Beyond those gates awaits our foe. Are you prepared to meet with her?


???: Who dares intrude upon my sanctuary!?
???: Your insolence shall not go unpunished, landwalkers!
Alphinaud: Twelve preserve...she's...she's huge!
Cid: As I live and breathe...
Cid: Over there─look.
Cid: Amalj'aa and kobold prisoners. But why would the Ixal bring them here...?
Garuda: Heehee HAHA hahaha HEEHEE haha HEEEEEE!!!
Garuda: Wherefore come you hither, foolish mortals!?
Alphinaud: Garuda! We are come to put an end to your reign of terror!
Garuda: Hear you this blasphemy, my children? These landwalkers would bring me low!
Garuda: You who are bound to crawl upon the earth should revere me─FOR I AM THE WIND!
Cid: Did we not take to the skies, and slip your defenses!? We are bound by nothing, Garuda!
Garuda: You think your playthings give you strength?
Garuda: They will not help you here, landwalker. This is my realm, where none can challenge my supremacy! Struggle though you may─I shall slake the roots with your blood, and festoon the canopy with your ENTRAILS! HAHAHAHAHAAA!
Ixali Chieftain: Squaaawk! Slay the unfeathered ones, we shall! As an offering to Garuda, they will serve!
Cid: Leave the Ixal to us, Coral! We will keep them distracted while you deal with her!
Alphinaud: Do not fail, Coral! Remember: you fight for the Scions! For Eorzea!
Garuda: This worm would die by mine own hand! Come, then...I shall grant you that which you seek!


[Battle]
Garuda: Heehee HAHA hahaha HEEHEE haha HEEEEEE!!!
Garuda: Soon you will see the depths of your folly, mortals!
Garuda: THE RECKONING COMES!!!
Garuda: There is no escape! No hope! NONE!!!
Garuda: My power... No... 


[End Battle]
Garuda: No... Nooo! NO! NO!!!


[Garuda feign weak and rise again]
Cid: What!? How in the hells─!?
Garuda: HAHAHAHAHAAA! This...is...MY REALM! You have no hope here! None! NONNNE!!!
Garuda: Did you truly believe you could defy a god, landwalkers!?
Garuda: My power is limitless! My children legion!
Garuda: And they have rendered unto me a wealth of crystals.
Garuda: Their gifts sustain me, their faith empowers me!
Garuda: None save my children will 'scape the reckoning, mortals! And those who would use my crystals to waken the rest shall realize the folly of their faith!
Garuda: Then all shall worship none but me! The one true god! HEE HEE HEE HEE HEEEEEE!!!
Alphinaud: ...Of course! Worship! So long as the Ixal keep praying, she will never fall!
Cid: Then let's stop them!


[Cid and Alphinaud were quickly put to the ground by a slash of wind]
Alphinaud: Ugh!
Garuda: HAHA hahaha HEEHEE heehee HAHAHA!!!
No harm will come to you, my children!
Garuda: This is only the beginning, landwalkers! All who oppose me shall suffer for their defiance!
Garuda: Soon, the worms of the forest shall receive my judgment! The desert vermin next─their walls of stone will not shield them from the tempest!
Garuda: And then will I take vengeance on the sea lice! Their wooden boats cannot outrun the wind!
Garuda: Tremble, mortals, for I shall visit you all in time! And all shall be mine! ALL MIIINE!!
Garuda: You, landwalker─you who dared to raise your hand against me─you shall be the first to pay for your sins! Not with your death─but with your LIFE!
Garuda: You will serve me, landwalker...to your last breath!


[Garuda attempts to temper the adventurer]
Garuda: No, NO!!! I claimed you! You should be MINE!


[The adventurer Echo’s vibrate towards Garuda, and a crystal emerge from her chest. The adventure collect the sixth crystal]
Garuda: What...what are you? What have you done to me!?
Garuda: No mortal should possess such power! This...this is impossible!
Garuda: Why do you not tremble at my might? Why do you not beg for mercy!? Why do you not DIE!?
Alphinaud: We've done it!


All Ixals: Impossible! Kill them all!


Gaius Van Baelsar: Is that all!?
Gaius Van Baelsar: O Lady of the Vortex! O mighty Garuda!
Gaius Van Baelsar: Of all primals, the most terrible. I say again...IS─THAT─ALL!?
Cid: Gaius!?
Gaius Van Baelsar: Ah, Cid, my boy. You look well─for one who has forsaken kin and country. I wonder, what else you will forsake before the day is done.
Cid: What!?
Gaius Van Baelsar: What exactly did you hope to accomplish here this day?
Cid: I...
Gaius Van Baelsar: Well, I shall accomplish far more!
Garuda: ...Is that all? IS THAT ALL!?
Garuda: Insolent mortal! I shall make you suffer!
Garuda: That foul stench... I see now... She has touched you!
Garuda: Very well...
Cid: Seven hells, does she still mean to fight!?
Amalj'aa: Gaaahhh! O Lord of the Inferno! Almighty Ifrit! Grant us succor in our hour of need!
Kobolds: Save us, Titan, Lord of Crags! It hurts us so, the pain, the pain...
Alphinaud: What is she─ Twelve preserve, she cannot mean to─


[Garuda summoned both Ifrit and Titan]
Alphinaud: No... No, this is all wrong...
Cid: Stop gawping, boy! We must run!
Garuda: Surrender yourselves unto me... I would feast upon your aether. NONE SHALL STAND AGAINST THE WIND!


[The Scions quickly returned to the Enterprise]
Gaius Van Baelsar: BEAR WITNESS TO THE GLORY OF THE EMPIRE!


[A large Bahamut-liked magitek carried by three juggernaut and landed]
Gaius Van Baelsar: It is you who will suffer, Garuda!
Gaius Van Baelsar: Ancient Allag had ways of dealing with your kind. Now, look on their ultimate weapon, eikon, and despair!


[The magitek absorb both Ifrit and Titan power, and grabs Garuda]
Garuda: No... Nooo! NOOO!


[The Magitek consume her]
Gaius Van Baelsar: Magnificent! It exceeds all expectation!
Lahabrea: With each primal it consumes, it grows more powerful. A marvel, is it not?
Gaius Van Baelsar: Such is the fate of those who oppose the Empire!
Gaius Van Baelsar: There will be no Warriors of Light to save you this time.
Gaius Van Baelsar: If your leaders are as wise as they are reported, they will surrender.


[The scene reveals Gaius Van Baelsar facing the Enterprise]
Gaius Van Baelsar: Your skills are impressive, but they will not be enough.
Alphinaud: Twelve have mercy! What chance have we against such an ungodly creation!?
Alphinaud: And who was that armored devil!?
Cid: That was Gaius van Baelsar, Legatus of the XIVth Imperial Legion, and supreme commander of the Garlean invasion force in Eorzea.
Alphinaud: Of course, the Black Wolf─how could I not realize? Grandfather mentions him in his journal!
Cid: I was never so naïve as to think the man would abandon his ambitions, but these developments are beyond my worst expectations...
Cid: What have you been doing these past five years? How could something of this magnitude have escaped the Alliance's attention?
Alphinaud: We heard no whispers, saw no signs. In the wake of the Calamity, the Empire seized land and built outposts, but that was the extent of their aggression.
Cid: Damn it, Gaius, where in the seven hells did you find that thing?
Alphinaud: It has been a day of unexpected developments, but the fact remains: Garuda is no longer a threat.
Alphinaud: While I take no comfort in the manner of her downfall, it does mean that we may safely put the matter of the primals to one side─for the time being, at least.
Cid: Which just leaves the matter of Gaius's new toy.
Alphinaud: Indeed. That weapon poses the greatest threat to Eorzea. It must be destroyed.
Alphinaud: But first, we must needs find out all we can.
Alphinaud: Let us make for Vesper Bay. We shall rebuild the Scions.
Alphinaud: All is not yet lost, my friend─for we bear the light, and shall surely lead our people from the darkness.


[NPC Interaction]
Cid: That weapon didn't destroy those primals─it devoured them. Gods only know what else it can do.


Alphinaud: Well, that was an experience I would rather not have again.
Alphinaud: Something has been troubling me, Coral. Shortly before the Black Wolf took center stage, when Garuda attempted to claim you as her own, I could have sworn I saw...
Alphinaud: Ah, but I'm sure I was mistaken. In times of great stress, the evidence of the eye is apt to be misread by even the most inquiring mind. Forget I mentioned it.
Alphinaud: Returning to the subject of our earlier discussion, we may consider the matter of the primals closed until further notice. No beast tribe will dare summon their god so long as that weapon exists.
Alphinaud: Truly, a more effective deterrent I could not imagine. It almost seems a shame to plot its destruction...








Lv. 44 Reclamation
Alphinaud: It is past time that we return to the Waking Sands.
Alphinaud: To leave our headquarters in disrepair any longer would be to dishonor the memory of those who fell there.
Alphinaud: We have been brought to our knees, but we will rest, rebuild, and rise once more.




[NPC Interaction in the Walking Sands]
Cid: I...I had no idea, Coral. I can only imagine how you felt when you returned that day…


Alphinaud: Tell me, Coral...does aught here strike you as odd? I see signs of recent habitation. Could it be that we have trespassers?
Alphinaud: Hm. Mayhap it is just my imagination. Come, let us proceed into the solar.
Cid: Wait.
Yda: Who goes there!?


Alphinaud: Now, now, Yda─is that any way to greet a friend?
Yda: Alphinaud! Coral!
Yda: Cid!? Wait, is this a dream?
Cid: Not that I'm aware of! It's been a while, Yda.
Yda: I...I don't believe it... I was sure you'd been─
Cid: This place has seen better days.
Yda: Uh...you know, I wasn't actually here when... I-I was still in talks at the Adders' Nest...
Yda: The first I knew about it was when I came back, and...and I saw...
Alphinaud: Yda...
Yda: The church had taken care of the bodies, but that still left...the stains... I-It was hard to know where to start... If Y'shtola hadn't been here to help me─
Alphinaud: Y'shtola is here too?
Yda: Yes. But she's not here right now. She's gone to Ul'dah to meet a man who might know what happened to the others.
Yda: Papalymo and Minfilia weren't among the dead, according to the church. Y'shtola thinks they were taken somewhere.
Alphinaud: Upon the orders of the Black Wolf, no doubt.
Cid: ...Why would he want them?
Alphinaud: Because they possess something he desires: knowledge of another power that can be brought to bear against the primals─one that Gaius has yet to harness...
Alphinaud: The Echo.
Alphinaud: Gaius will be aware of its existence, as well as the immunity it grants the gifted to the primals' influence.
Alphinaud: Powerful though his Allagan weapon may be, he would doubtless desire such protection.
Alphinaud: He means to use Minfilia to gain an understanding of the Echo.
Alphinaud: ...None of which explains how the Empire came to know the location of the Waking Sands in the first place...
Alphinaud: No matter. The Empire has shown their hand, and now we must act. It is up to us to rebuild the Scions and save Eorzea.
Alphinaud: Can I count on you, Yda?
Yda: What? Oh, yes─yes, of course! Whatever you need!
Alphinaud: We can discuss our next move upon Y'shtola's return.
Alphinaud: For now, I say we rest.


[During resting,the adventurer hear the Echo]
Hear… Feel… Think…
Bringer of Light
Brave getherer of the Crystals… Thy soul burneth bright!
I am Hydaelyn. All made one.
Hearken unto me now, for the Darkness doth begin to spread.
Ware thee the bearer of the Crimson Brand, for he is the Avatar of Shadow, whom Death attendeth always.
The Crystal shall be thy salvation─thy blade and shield both.
Steel thyself, for at the appointed hour…
Thou shalt stare into the Heart of Darkness.
Go with caution, my child, but fear not─for I am ever with thee.


[Y’shtola entered the room]
Yda: Y'shtola!
Y'shtola: Coral. I see you and Alphinaud are safe. And...and Cid.
Y'shtola: That we five should meet each other thus defies simple explanation. It is as if the benevolent hand of Master Louisoix guided us still.
Y'shtola: He would not see us undone so easily. Not now, when the need is so great.
Y'shtola: I know where Minfilia and the others are being held.
Alphinaud: Where?
Y'shtola: An imperial stronghold in the heart of Mor Dhona─Castrum Centri.










Lv. 44        Casing the Castrum
Y'shtola: The rescue of our allies will be no small undertaking, Coral.
Y'shtola: Even under normal circumstances, breaching the defenses of an imperial castrum would be a highly dangerous proposition.
Y'shtola: But now that Castrum Centri houses prisoners whom the Garleans deem valuable, we may be confident that they have taken additional measures to ensure the stronghold's security.
Y'shtola: If we are to free our friends, we will require an effective strategy. And if we are to formulate an effective strategy, we will require intelligence.
Y'shtola: I believe I know a man who may be able to assist us in this: Lord Portelaine of House Durendaire. He is stationed at the Observatorium in Coerthas. Let us go to him, and beseech his aid.


[NPC Interaction]
Cid: Gaius may have called it a weapon of ancient Allag, but I saw extensive magitek modifications... 
Yda: All right, let's do this! Let's go an rescue Minfilia and the others!
Alphinaud: An imperial castrum...  'Twas to be expected, I suppose.
Y'shtola: It is fortunate indeed that we were able to regroup here─I did not care much for my chances of surviving a foray into an imperial stronghold alone. But I am certain that together, we will find a way to rescue our fellow Scions.




Portelaine: Ah, Coral─the man who unmasked the heretic in our midst! To what do I owe the pleasure of your company?
Portelaine: You are an associate of Y'shtola? But of course. Lord Drillemont confided to me that you were a Scion of the Seventh Dawn...
Portelaine: Castrum Centri? What interest have you all in the imperials?
Y'shtola: They hold several of our number─whom we intend to free. Any information you can provide would be greatly appreciated.
Portelaine: I see. That might explain our scouts' reports...
Portelaine: They observed four prisoners being led into the Castrum: a Hyuran woman, an Elezen man, and two Lalafells─one male, one female.
Yda: It's them! It has to be! Minfilia, Urianger, Papalymo and Tataru!
Portelaine: If that scant morsel is of use to you, you may also be interested to hear about a more recent incident.
Y'shtola: Incident?
Portelaine: An imperial airship made an emergency landing here in Coerthas not long ago. Two men believed to be prisoners─a Roegadyn and a Lalafell─were seen fleeing the craft.
Cid: What did you say?
Portelaine: A Roegadyn and a Lalafell, Master Garlond. Neither wore imperial dress, and both seemed disinclined to wait for rescue, hence our assumption that they were prisoners.
Cid: Well, I'll be damned...it's Biggs and Wedge! Trust those two rascals to escape...
Cid: We must find them, Coral, and soon!
Cid: The imperials will not rest until they are captured or killed, and if Biggs were given the choice, I fear he'd take the latter.
Portelaine: Freeing those held in Castrum Centri will require substantial planning and preparation. As such, it is an endeavor that will admit some slight delay.
Portelaine: The matter of the escapees, by contrast, will not. Shortly after the prisoners vacated the airship, our scouts observed imperial troops setting off in pursuit. It is likely only a matter of time before they catch them.
Portelaine: If you wish to see your comrades again, you had best act now.
Y'shtola: If, as has been suggested, the Garleans took our fellow Scions prisoner in hopes of understanding the Echo, it seems reasonable to assume that they will not be executed until such time as the study is complete.
Y'shtola: But Biggs and Wedge are not Scions, nor do they know aught of the Echo. As Lord Portelaine said, this may prove our only chance to rescue them. I say we seize it.
Cid: Thank you, everyone! You won't regret this.


[Somewhere in the imperial stronghold]
Nero Tol Scaeva: Final preparations are almost complete, my lord.
Nero Tol Scaeva: There stands the culmination of five long years of painstaking work. But all our efforts will be vindicated when the Emperor's vision becomes reality.
Gaius Van Baelsar: At last, we have the power to purge this land of its false gods.
Gaius Van Baelsar: We shall give the ignorant children of Eorzea the security and stability they so desperately crave─and which their spineless leaders have so palpably failed to provide.
Nero Tol Scaeva: As you say, my Lord. Rest assured, our engineers will not rest until the weapon is fully armed and operational.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Rhitahtyn. You depart for Castrum Occidens at midnight.
Gaius Van Baelsar: You will command the western front in Vylbrand.
Gaius Van Baelsar: The Eorzeans will attempt to interfere with our plans. You will see that they do not.
Rhitahtyn Sas Arvina: My lord, if this be your will, I shall carry it out to the best of my ability. I live only to serve the Empire.
Rhitahtyn Sas Arvina: Yet...forgive my impudence, but is it proper to give command of half our forces to a─
Gaius Van Baelsar: I have given you nothing, Praefectus. You have earned it.
That will be all. Dismissed.
Rhitahtyn Sas Arvina: Yes, my lord!
Gaius Van Baelsar: ...My quarters, one hour.










Lv. 44        Eyes on the Empire
Portelaine: My purpose here is to reconnoiter Garlean activity along Abalathia's Spine. Owing to this, I have the honor of being acquainted with Y'shtola.
Portelaine: Now, the report of the imperial airship's emergency landing came to us by way of Dzemael Darkhold, situated to the west.
Portelaine: Our man stationed at the entrance, a knight named Bricelt, may be able to tell you more. So as to expedite your mission, I shall furnish you with a letter of introduction.
Portelaine: I pray that you will soon be reunited with your comrades. May the Fury grant you strength.


Bricelt: You stand before Dzemael Darkhold, the subterranean fortress excavated by the great Ishgardian house of the same name. None but authorized personnel may enter.
Bricelt: A letter from Lord Portelaine?
...So you have come about the imperial airship.
Bricelt: According to our scouts, the vessel had scarce touched the ground when a pair of men─captives, by all accounts─burst forth and bolted. Imperial soldiers have since been sighted in the area, seeking to recapture them.
Bricelt: What? The captives are like to be your friends, you say? Then let us pray that they are yet a step ahead of their pursuers...
Bricelt: The emergency landing reportedly took place near the Aurum Vale, situated south and west of here. I suggest you take your search there. Seek out a knight named Pierremons─he should be able to assist you.


Pierremons: ...The imperial airship? Aye, I saw it approach to land with mine own two eyes.
Pierremons: I hastened to the landing site, arriving just in time to see the vessel take to the skies again, but not before it had deployed a detachment of troops. Gruff orders were being barked, and there was an air of consternation about them.




Lv. 44        Footprints in the Snow
Pierremons: There were prisoners aboard the airship, it seems, and they seized the opportunity to flee when the vessel was forced to land.
Pierremons: The Garleans who were deployed formed search parties and proceeded to scour the wilderness. In order to alert our forces, I returned to my post...
Pierremons: ...To find evidence that someone had been here in my absence. Whoever they were, they tried the door to no avail, and decided to go elsewhere.
Pierremons: In all, I marked two sets of footprints─one large and one small. If you search the area, mayhap you will be able to follow the prints to their owners.




Wedge: Brrr... So...c-c-cold... I w-w-want to go home...
Wedge: Uwaaaaaah! P-Please don't eat me! I'm not nearly as succulent as I look! It's all skin and bones underneath, I swear!
Wedge: <gasp> Coral, it's you! Thank goodness you're here! It's been...it's been awful!
Wedge: The Garleans were snapping at our heels like a hungry pack of wolves! I was so hells-bent on evading them, I almost ran headlong into a monster's gaping maw...thrice! And when I finally found cover, it hit me how cold and hungry I was!
Wedge: B-Biggs? He...he isn't here. He went off in a different direction to lure our pursuers away.


[Linkpearl call]
Cid: It's me, Cid. Have you had any success?
Cid: ...Tracked down Wedge!? That's wonderful news! Now, what of Biggs?
Cid: ...I see. Well, it hardly surprises me that the big fellow went off as he did. For all the tongue-lashings he gives Wedge, he's always taken care of him.
Cid: I've scoured the area surrounding the Darkhold, but have nothing to show for it. At any rate, we know for a fact that Biggs headed west. With both Yda and Y'shtola helping out, I'm sure he'll turn up soon.
Cid: Now then, I'll make my way over to your position while keeping an eye out for Biggs.
Cid: If memory serves, there should be an Ishgardian fortification not far to your west─Monument Tower, I believe it's called. Let us meet there.
Wedge: Dare I hope...? Was that...Master Garlond you spoke with!?
Wedge: <sniff> After five long years... <sob> Thank goodness he's alive...
Wedge: I'm feeling better now, Coral! Let's go to Monument Tower and wait for the chief to arrive!


Wedge: Dare I hope...? Was that...Master Garlond you spoke with!?
Wedge: <sniff> After five long years... <sob> Thank goodness he's alive...
Wedge: I'm feeling better now, Coral! Let's go to Monument Tower and wait for the chief to arrive!
Abelie: Well met and welcome, adventurer. What brings you to this frozen corner of the realm?
Abelie: Oh? It would seem your companion has caught a chill. Come and warm yourself by the fire. I will bring you a hot broth.
Abelie: How are we feeling now, then? Stay here as long as you need.
Abelie: The same goes for you, friend. 'Tis plain you have a hard journey ahead of you. You must find rest when you can.








Lv. 44        Monumental Hopes
Wedge: I'm fine now, thanks to you, but I can't bear to think that Biggs is still all alone in the cold, with Garleans on his heels.
Wedge: He lured the enemy away for my sake, and now he's suffering for it. I hate to have to rely on you again, Coral, but do you think you could search for Biggs?
Wedge: I haven't the slightest notion where he might be at the moment, but maybe─just maybe─the people here have seen something.


Abelie: A Roegadyn gentleman dressed in the same manner as your companion? I'm sorry, but he did not come by here. Hmmm, let me think a moment...
Abelie: I would not raise your hopes unduly, but there is a cave situated a short distance to the south. We call it the Fury's Gaze, and it may be worth the while to investigate.
Abelie: I make this suggestion only because your friend seems like a selfless sort. Rather than drawing the enemy to this tower, mayhap he elected to pass us by.


Wedge: Coral! Were you able to learn anything!?
Wedge: ...Not in this area? Well, that stands to reason, I suppose, seeing as he was trying to lure the Garleans away from me. But where within this vast sea of snow and ice could he be?






Lv. 44        Notorious Biggs
Wedge: We can't give up, Coral! We must find Biggs before he succumbs to the cold or is recaptured!
Wedge: There must be someone in this tower who can help us, even if it's only to tell us where else to look!
Wedge: Ask them for me! Ask anyone who'll listen! And hurry! Biggs's chances of survival grow slimmer by the moment!


Ignace: Your friend is lost in the wilderness, you say?
Ignace: If he's not to be found around here or in the vicinity of the Darkhold, it is possible he made for Whitebrim.
Ignace: To reach it, one must travel through Daniffen Pass, the southern end of which lies to the north and east of here.
Ignace: While I make no guarantee that your search will bear fruit, it is surely better than worrying in idleness. I wish you luck.
Ignace: ...Oh, and one more thing. Do tread warily when climbing the stairs here. Not a moon ago, I near broke my neck when I slipped and took a tumble.


[NPC Interaction]
Yda: Coral! We've found Biggs, but he's in trouble!


Imperial Soldier: Our orders are to take you back, dead or alive! Which will it be, Engineer?
Biggs: Why don't you come and find out, tin-head!?
Y'shtola: Ah, Coral, it is well that you are here. The situation is grave.
Yda: Biggs is in a bad way! We need to do something, right now!
Y'shtola: Yda has the right of it. He will perish if we delay.
Y'shtola: With me!
Imperial Soldier: He's not alone! Kill them all!


[Battle]
Biggs: H-How did you know where to find me?
5th Cohort Decurion: Hold your ground! Reinforcements are coming!
Yda: The more the merrier! I'll pound you all into the next Umbral Era!
Y'shtola: Yda! Less provoking and more pummeling, if you would be so kind!
5th Cohort Decurion: Vanguards, destroy them!
Y'shtola: Coral! Stay close to Biggs!
Yda: Ack! How many of them are there!?
Y'shtola: ...More than are conducive to merriment.
Next time, Yda, have a care what you wish for.
Biggs: This is the last of them!


[End Battle]
Biggs: <pant> M-My thanks... <pant> Another m-moment, and...I-I would have... <grunt>
Y'shtola: He has been too long in the cold. We must find shelter for him.
Y'shtola: ...Monument Tower, you say? Very well, Yda and I shall bear him there with all haste.
Yda: Cid will be so happy to see Biggs and Wedge again! Awww, I love reunions!


Wedge: I cannot thank you enough, Coral─and the same goes for the rest of you! Thank you all so much!
Yda: Oh, don't mention it!
Y'shtola: We are a family, are we not?
Wedge: Well...well, yes. It's just─ <sniff> It's just, I didn't think─ <sniff> I didn't think I'd ever see him again. <sob>
Biggs: I owe the lot of you my life.
Biggs: And you saved Wedge's too, Coral. I'm losing count of how many I owe you.
Cid: Biggs! Wedge! Gods, it's good to see the two of you again!
Wedge: Chief! It's you! It's really you!
Biggs: In our hearts, we knew you were still alive... But to finally see you in the flesh... <sniff>
Cid: When Alphinaud told me of the raid on the Waking Sands, I feared the worst. What happened?
Biggs: The enemy struck with nary a warning. We didn't stand a chance.
Biggs: Wedge and I were in the workshop when they came. Before we knew what was happening, the imperials had us at gunpoint.
Yda: It must have been awful... There's one thing I don't understand, though: how did the Garleans get there so fast? I mean, the Immortal Flames should have seen them coming, right?
Y'shtola: I myself have asked the same question. That day, when I returned to the carnage at the Waking Sands, I noted naught amiss in Horizon─nothing at all to suggest the passing of an imperial force. From this, I conclude that the Garleans came neither by land nor by air. Nay, they were borne there by potent teleportation magicks─magicks of the kind used by the Ascians.
Cid: Carry on.
Wedge: We were bound and blindfolded, and bundled into the cargo bay of a waiting airship.
Wedge: I can't rightly say how long we were aboard, but when the time came for us to disembark, we found ourselves in the midst of an imperial stronghold─Castrum Centri.
Wedge: Upon arrival, we were marched off into the main complex. Biggs and I were thrown into a detainment cell together, while Minfilia and the others were taken elsewhere. That was the last we heard from them.
Cid: Castrum Centri...
Cid: What happened next?
Wedge: Well, we were held in isolation for what felt like years, but was probably moons...or maybe only weeks. And then, without warning, the imperials collected the pair of us, and put us on another vessel, which we found out was bound for Garlemald, much to our dread. We knew that if we were taken back there, we weren't like to leave again.
Wedge: So, risky though it was, we sabotaged the ship's altitude control and thereby forced an emergency landing. And in the midst of the ensuing chaos, we managed to slip our captors. The rest, as they say, is history.
Cid: Hah! If I didn't know better, I'd call that a likely story! Sabotaging the altitude controls of an airborne vessel!? That will have been Biggs's handiwork, like as not. You always were resourceful in a tight spot, my friend!
Cid: Coral─thank you for returning my dear assistants to me. It would seem I owe you yet another debt of gratitude.
Cid: There are still many questions in my mind, but the answers can wait─Minfilia and the others still want for rescue.
Cid: All right, you lot─Garlond Ironworks is back in business! Let's go and give the imperials what for!
Biggs and Wedge: Hurrah!




[NPC Interaction]
Wedge: Thank goodness you found me, Coral! I would have frozen, or drowned, or been eaten by a mudpuppy if it wasn't for you!
Biggs: I knew the chief was still alive! Deep down, I always knew. And he looks healthy, too─well, he could with a shave I suppose, but other than that... 




Lv. 44        Come-Into-My-Castrum
Cid: Thanks to you, Biggs and Wedge are with us again.
Cid: Now we must find a way to rescue Minfilia and the others. Gods know we've kept them waiting too long already.
Cid: Based on what we've learned, I believe it's safe to say they're being held at Castrum Centri.
Cid: So let us convene at Revenant's Toll in Mor Dhona─'tis as good a place as any to prepare, and better than most. The road leading east then south will get you there.
Cid: When we arrive, let us seek the advice of the local adventurers. We're bound to learn a thing or two that will benefit our mission.


Slafborn: Well met, friend. What brings you to Revenant's Toll?
Slafborn: ...Did I hear you rightly? Your friends are being held captive at Castrum Centri, and you want to rescue them? I don't mean to discourage you, but that might prove...difficult.
Slafborn: The stronghold has been on high alert of late, with armored patrols seen about the perimeter around the clock. Not even a fly could get within a hundred yalms of the walls undetected.
Y'shtola: If the Garleans were alerted to our coming, we cannot know what they will do to Minfilia and the others. We must act with the greatest stealth.
Cid: Aye, it has to be good old-fashioned infiltration.
Yda: But with security so tight, how are we going to smuggle ourselves in?
Cid: Why, I've a mind to walk through the front door.
Yda: Huh? The front door?
Cid: Aye, we'll disguise ourselves as imperial troops and march right in.
Cid: For this, we'll need a few sets of imperial uniforms, a suit of magitek armor, and impeccable timing.
Slafborn: Heh, that's a bold strategy, but it just might work. Where we are, there's certainly no shortage of opportunities to borrow the equipment.
Slafborn: Knowing those imperial bastards, they won't even suspect that we savage Eorzeans would think to use their technology.
Cid: Then it's settled!
Slafborn: If you're determined to go ahead with this, I'd recommend you speak with Glaumunt.
Slafborn: The fellow's got a personal grudge against the Empire, and happens to know a deal about Castrum Centri besides. I've no doubt that he'd want to be of aid.
Y'shtola: Yda and I shall go to reconnoiter Garlean activity at the stronghold. It would not do if something were to befall our comrades before we had the chance to act.
Yda: Come and join us when you're ready, Coral! Let's do this!
Y'shtola: Sometimes I wonder, Yda... Are there ever times when you are not enthused?
Yda: I'm nothing if not enthused, Y'shtola! And you're beginning to remind me of Papalymo!


Glaumunt: Lookin' for Glaumunt, are you? Well, you've found him, whoever you are.
Glaumunt: ...Eh? You're lookin' to get inside Castrum Centri, and you need my help? Heh, somethin' tells me we're gonna get along just fine.


Lv. 44 Getting Even with Garlemald
Glaumunt: ...So you have friends at Castrum Centri what want for rescue. That Slafborn knows me too well─aye, you can count on my help.
Glaumunt: I've got a score to settle with the imperials, an' I never pass on an opportunity to get back at the whoresons. But enough about me, let's talk strategy.
Glaumunt: Rescuin' folk from captivity's right delicate business. A single oversight─just one little blunder─an' it's all over. You can't leave any room for uncertainty.
Glaumunt: For starters, you need to confirm beyond the shadow of a doubt that your friends're where you think they are. You don't want to risk your neck only to discover they've been moved elsewhere. But how can you find out, you ask? By followin' these instructions:
Glaumunt: If you approach Centri from the east, you'll see a swampland to your left called the Tangle. Get in there, never mind all the morbols, an' navigate your way to the southwestern corner.
Glaumunt: You'll come upon some drainage pipes comin' down from the stronghold. Don't ask me how I know, but one o' them leads back up to the command tower. If you climb inside an' listen closely, might be as you can eavesdrop on some o' the happenin's within.
Glaumunt: Once we know for certain your friends're there, we'll move to the next stage o' the operation. Now, get goin', and godsspeed!


The faint sound of conversation echoes down the pipe.
Collected Voice: What of the captive? Does she still refuse to speak?
Youthful Voice: She may as well be a deaf mute for all the information we've gotten out of her.
Gruff Voice: The others aren't much better. The Elezen gets on my nerves most of all. Every time he opens his mouth, it's only to spout gibberish.
Youthful Voice: I do wonder, why is the tribunus so obsessed with this Minfilia woman?
Gruff Voice: They say she possesses some mystical power. Something we Garleans don't have.
Youthful Voice: Mystical power? Like the kind the beastmen use?
Gruff Voice: How am I supposed to bloody know? If you're so curious, why don't you ask the tribunus yourself?
Youthful Voice: As well try to tumble her! I like my head where it is, thank you very much!
Collected Voice: Our break is over. Best we get back to our stations.
The footfalls grow fainter until all is silent.


[NPC Interaction]
Alphinaud: In the wake of the Calamity, the XIVth Imperial Legion occupied what remained of Castrum Novum, eventually rebuilding and renaming it Castrum Centri.
Alphinaud: The stronghold contains immense manufacturing and storage facilities, and it is the primary supplier of materiel for imperial forces stationed throughout Eorzea.
Alphinaud: Consequently, it is heavily defended. Infiltrating will not be easy. Nevertheless, it is necessary.
Biggs: Dressing up as soldiers and sneaking in the front door, eh? Well, if you've got the guts to go through with it, then so do I!
Wedge: Oh, boy, I always wanted my own reaper! I would wash her and wax her and name her and... 
Cid: Stealth and subterfuge, Coral, is how we will free our friends. I have every confidence you can play the part of an imperial soldier.


Alphinaud: 'Tis good to see you again, Coral. I'm given to understand you have conducted some reconnaissance. Tell me, what were you able to learn?
Alphinaud: ...So Minfilia and the others are indeed at Castrum Centri! Their presence thus confirmed, we may proceed with the mission. While you were afield, Cid took the liberty of devising a plan of action. Pray have the details from him.
Cid: Good work, Coral. As Alphinaud has already told you, we've plotted out a course for the rescue.
Cid: The gist of it is unchanged: we disguise ourselves as imperial soldiers and infiltrate the stronghold.
Cid: Glaumunt is looking into ways to procure a suit of magitek armor. In the meantime, I need your assistance for some preparation of my own.
Cid: Minfilia and the others are counting on us, Coral. Let's not keep them waiting any longer than necessary!


Lv. 46        Drowning Put the Voices
Cid: While Glaumunt goes about devising his plan, we need to see to some preparation of our own.
Cid: It wouldn't do if the imperials were to discover that they're short an armor.
Cid: To prevent this from happening, I'm going to put together a makeshift communications-jamming device. The explanation is like to get a bit technical, so bear with me.
Cid: Imperial forces communicate at a distance via electromagnetic waves. Simply put, voices are borne upon aetheric lightning energy that permeates the air.
Cid: Now, the hill-sized cluster of corrupted crystals to the west has been observed to amplify the selfsame energy. By making use of this property, we should be able to drown out imperial voices.
Cid: To ensure that we have enough amplification, we must identify the most potent crystals among the cluster. For this, I need you to go there and use this device to take readings. I'll mark the likely places on your map.
Cid: Oh, and just so you know, plasmoids are drawn to lightning energy. Don't be surprised if you run into a few.


Cid: You have the readings? Excellent. Here, let me see the numbers.
Cid: ...Yes, four of these crystals should suit our purpose, though gods forbid we ever need to harness their power. My thanks, Coral.


Lv. 46        Acting the Part
Glaumunt: Clean the wax out o' your ears now, 'cause there's somethin' I want you to do by way o' preparation.
Glaumunt: The plan's to have you enter Castrum Centri all decked out in imperial duds, but a disguise is more'n just the clothes you're wearin'. You also gotta act the part.
Glaumunt: At the very least, you need to know how to perform a convincin' imperial salute. First impressions're everythin', as they say.
Glaumunt: I could teach you the salute myself, o' course, but it's best you learned it from the experts. So get yourself near as you dare to Castrum Centri, an' watch the imperials doin' what they do.


Imperial Sentry: Nothing to report, sir!
Imperial Decurion: We have received an anonymous warning that insurgent forces are near.
Imperial Decurion: We must redouble our vigilance. I shall recommend that patrols be increased.


[The adventurer mimics the salute done by the Imperial]]


Glaumunt: So, did you manage to learn the imperial salute?
Glaumunt: No, no, no, best you don't demonstrate─I'm liable to fly into a rage an' crack skulls. I'll just take your word for it.




Lv. 46        Dressed for Conquest
Sark Malark: You are called Coral Ferrinas, yes? I have heard of your plight from my friend Glaumunt. As a fellow adventurer and son of Eorzea both, I would offer you my assistance.
Sark Malark: In order to infiltrate Castrum Centri, you and your comrades must disguise yourselves as imperial soldiers. The question is how to go about acquiring the uniforms and helms.
Sark Malark: There are places a man might purchase them, but individuals who deal in such wares are not the sort to whom you would entrust your secrets.
Sark Malark: It would be more prudent, I believe, to procure what you need via traditional means─from the bodies of their recently deceased owners.
Sark Malark: The fortified area before Castrum Centri never lacks for imperial patrols. It ought not take long to obtain three sets of gear, one for each member of the infiltration team─Biggs, Wedge, and yourself.
Sark Malark: When you have what you need, please return here and allow me to inspect the spoils.




Sark Malark: ...Damaged, as I had suspected. In their present condition, I fear these uniforms and helms are like to draw suspicion.
Sark Malark: They must be repaired, if only superficially. Fortunately, I have some skilled artisans among my acquaintances.
Sark Malark: Please take the uniforms to the Weavers' Guild in Ul'dah, and the helms to the Armorers' Guild in Limsa Lominsa.
Sark Malark: I will send word so that both places know to expect you. Rest assured your mission will be kept in the utmost confidence.


Aethelwine: Ah, you must be the adventurer Coral Ferrinas! Welcome, welcome! My lord Sark Malark sent word that you would be along. So, what garments are these that require attention?
Aethelwine: <gasp> Oh, my...
Well, I am certain you have your reasons, and I shan't question them. Nor do you need fear that I will spread gossip.
Aethelwine: My lord Sark Malark is one of our very best clients, though these days I'm told he spends more time roaming the land as an adventurer.
Aethelwine: Far be it from me to question my lord's tastes, but I struggle to understand why a man of his fabulous wealth would forsake the comforts of his estate for a life of danger and hardship.
Aethelwine: ...And the repairs are done! I was instructed to prioritize swiftness, and so I did. While I can't vouch for the protective capacity of the garments, they certainly look the part, even if I do say so myself.
Aethelwine: Payment? Never you mind that─sending my regards to my lord Sark Malark will be payment enough.


H'naanza: Coral Ferrinas. I have been expecting you. Sark Malark gives me to understand you come on his behalf with unusual helms.
H'naanza: ...Yes, very unusual indeed. Though no more outlandish an order than I have come to expect from the merchant prince-turned-adventurer.
H'naanza: Your awkward staring tells me I said something improper.
...Oh. Sark did not mention his background to you. <sigh> That was likely his intent, but I suppose there's no help for it now but to tell you the whole story.
H'naanza: Sark Malark is a successful Ul'dahn merchant. Though still tender in years, he has an eye for profit, and with it founded his trade empire. Having made his millions, he turned his attention towards his true passion─adventuring─and left the management of his fortune to trusted aides.
H'naanza: The helms are ready. With a little more time, I could have achieved a far higher quality finish, but I was given to understand that you are in some haste. These should serve your needs well enough.
H'naanza: Lest you wonder about payment, Sark Malark has already settled the bill. Do pass along my regards when next you see him.


Sark Malark: Have you had the uniforms and helms repaired?
Sark Malark: Yes, these will serve beautifully. Both Aethelwine and H'naanza never fail to impress. The quality of these repairs would fool even a legatus.
Sark Malark: Thus equipped, you should not have any trouble blending in amongst imperial forces.
Sark Malark: Lest you fear that the Garleans might detect your “foreignness,” foreigners in fact form the greater part of the Garlean invasion force in Eorzea.
Sark Malark: You see, when the Empire subjugates new territory, it assimilates the people of that land into its armed forces. In turn, these conscripted forces are sent to subjugate faraway lands. In this way, Garlemald nips rebellion in the bud and expands its territory in one fell stroke.
Sark Malark: With that, my part in your mission is done. I am full glad to have been of assistance to your cause.
Sark Malark: ...Hm? Why would I, a merchant prince, wish to help you? I know not where you heard such a tale, but believe me when I say that I am but another humble adventurer, one who desires only to act in the best interests of the realm.






Lv. 46        Fool Me Twice
Glaumunt: Good work gettin' them imperial duds. You'll be pleased to hear I ain't been idle myself. It took me long enough, but I've finally hatched a plan to get us a suit o' magitek armor.
Glaumunt: Now, from what I've seen, Castrum Centri deploys a reaper for most of its patrols.
Glaumunt: Trouble is, the patrols 'emselves are irregular─meanin' random routes an' random deployments─an' hardly any of 'em come anywhere near Revenant's Toll.
Glaumunt: So, hopin' to coax the imperials out o' their shells, I took the liberty o' feedin' 'em a bit o' the old false intelligence─told 'em insurgents had designs on their stronghold.
Glaumunt: 'Tain't far from the truth, now I come to think of it. Anyroad, we should start seein
' more patrols than we have up till now.
Glaumunt: What you need to do is approach one o' these patrols, dressed up in your shiny tin suit, an' alert 'em to the enemy's presence.
Glaumunt: Havin' done that, you'll want to lure 'em as near to Revenant's Toll as you can. Like as not, though, they'll be wary o' venturin' far from their own walls.
Glaumunt: If they do need a bit of extra encouragement, use this smoke signal here, filched fresh from an imperial scout. They'll come runnin' when they see that. An' when the cavalry arrives, you hit 'em hard an' make off with their reaper─simple as that.
Glaumunt: If I ain't mistaken, there's a patrol sweepin' the perimeter right now, so run along, eh? Oh, an' don't forget to salute!


[NPC Interaction]
Imperial Centurion: One of our covert operatives, I take it? In or out of uniform, you would do well to remember your courtesies.
Careless Imperial: What do you want?
Cross Imperial: You have no business being here! Begone or I will take you for an insurgent!
Beleagured Imperial: Need...sleep... <snore>
Beguiled Imperial: Trespassers will be dealt with severely. You have been warned.
Amiable Imperial: One of our informers, I take it? <sigh> Do have any idea what will happen if you're seen with us? The insurgents will have your head!


Imperial Centurion: One of our covert operatives, are you? Carry on, soldier.
...Hm? Insurgents gathering to the east, you say?
Imperial Centurion: Judging by your description, they are well beyond the perimeter...but I will not have it said that I was remiss. You, return to the scene and keep an eye on those insurgents. Should aught go awry, use your smoke signal to call us.




Cid: I hope you don't mind my joining. Seeing as we're seizing advanced weaponry, I thought it best to be on hand.
Cid: Ah, there she is.
Imperial Centurion: This is the place...but where is the enemy?
Imperial Signaler: Sir, over there!
Imperial Centurion: Send in the reaper! Let us make an example of these insurgents!


[Battle]
Cid: Keep hitting the reaper till it stops moving!
Cid: Put down all of the foot soldiers, then concentrate on the reaper! A few scratches can't be helped!
5th Cohort Eques: Hostiles detected! Engaging!
Cid: It's not easy being an engineer...
The magitek armor is now overclocked!
Cid: Damn it! The armor has gone into overdrive! If you value your life, stay out of its sights!
Cid: Hah! That did the trick!


Cid: At last, our very own suit of magitek armor!
Cid: Hmm... Not wishing to look a gift chocobo in the beak, it does seem rather the worse for wear, doesn't it?
Cid: Biggs, Wedge─what's your honest assessment?
Biggs: Weeell...there's the fact that she's smoking, of course... But looking past that, I'd say she was structurally sound.
Wedge: Hmmm...I don't like the way these legs are buckled. I hate to say this, but the servomechanism may be damaged.
Biggs: Eh? But aren't those things protected by ilm-thick armor plate?
Wedge: They are, yes... It's odd─the casing doesn't seem to have taken a blow. I suspect we're dealing with a faulty part.
Biggs: Well, whatever it is we're dealing with, we're not resting till it's fixed! Not one wink of sleep─you got that, Wedge?
Wedge: Oh... <mumble> <mumble> ...ing cart chocobo.
Biggs: I heard that!
Cid: A hall has been set aside for our use in Revenant's Toll.
Cid: That's where we'll carry out the repairs. Look for us there, Coral.


Slafborn: ...The magitek armor? Cid and the others took it inside. Go on in and join them.
Cid: We've now had time to take a closer look at the reaper. Our preliminary diagnosis was correct─she's structurally sound, but her servomechanism is faulty.
Cid: You needn't worry, though─Biggs and Wedge will see her restored to her former glory in no time at all. Give those two something to mend, and they will think of naught else till the job's done. 'Tis a marvelous thing to behold─provided you remind them to visit the privy.






Lv. 46        Every Little Thing She Does Is Magitek
[NPC Interaction]
Wedge: What do you think, Coral? She's a beauty, isn't she?
Biggs: Ever seen an Ironworks engineer at work? Well, you're in for a treat, then! Stand back and enjoy the show!
Cid: Much like that gamble with the corrupted crystal, it's quite possible that this plan fails spectacularly. But it's a risk we'll have to take in order to free our friends.


Cid: The repairs are proceeding apace. It shouldn't be long now before Biggs and Wedge complete their work. There is, however, one small problem...
Cid: As you may recall, the machina's servomechanism was discovered to be faulty. Wedge has subsequently ascertained that the magitek core which drives it is worn beyond use.
Cid: Such cores are rather fragile devices which must be replaced at regular intervals. Thanks to the negligence of our imperial colleagues, however, the one used in this reaper was long overdue.




Cid: Alas, we do not have access to a ready replacement here in Mor Dhona. But all is not lost: Wedge thinks he may have identified an alternative solution. Go and see him, would you? He'll explain the details to you.


Wedge: As I believe the chief has already informed you, the magitek core is worn beyond use. We need to find a replacement.
Wedge: I thought about having you appropriate more reapers, but even if the dunderhead maintenance engineers of Castrum Centri had remembered to replace their cores, we would risk arousing imperial suspicion.
Wedge: But do not despair, for I believe there is a solution: to substitute the magitek core with a mammet heart!
Wedge: In case you don't know, a mammet heart can be used to grant sentience to an automaton. By my reckoning, such a device should be more than capable of regulating the armor's servomechanism. We'll just need to make some minor modifications to the housing unit.
Wedge: I've already placed an order for a first-rate mammet heart with the Goldsmiths' Guild. All that remains is for someone to go to Ul'dah and collect it! Oh...and to pay for it. Ahem. Did I...mention how much they cost? No? W-Well, they typically cost something in the order of, um... <mumble> I hope you don't mind footing the bill─it's for a good cause!


Serendipity: Hello there! Come to collect a mammet heart, you say?
Serendipity: Then you must be here on behalf of Garlond Ironworks! I've taken the liberty of picking the finest example we have─a heart fit for a prince among mammets!
Serendipity: ...Payment? Oh, that won't be necessary. The heart is for Master Alphinaud's personal use, after all. He notified us a short while ago that his manservant would be coming to collect it.
Serendipity: Tender in years though he may be, Master Alphinaud has been a benefactor of ours since my predecessor's time. The Goldsmiths' Guild wouldn't dream of charging him.
Serendipity: But here is the mammet heart! May it serve you well! Oh, and please do pass on my compliments to your master!


Wedge: Do you have the mammet heart? I can't wait to see if it works!
Wedge: Hurrah! Thank you so much!
Wedge: <gasp> But this...this is magnificent! It must have cost an emperor's ransom!
Wedge: ...Free of charge, courtesy of Alphinaud!? Coming from an influential family certainly has its advantages!
Wedge: But without further ado, let's give it a try! I've already modified the housing unit, so it should slot right in!
Wedge: There! She's ready! Magitek armor...engage!
Wedge: ...Or not.
Haha...hah... She just needs a loving tap, I'll wager.
Wedge: Yes! She's...she's ALIVE!
Wedge: Let's take her outside and put her through her paces! Coral, would you care to do the honors?


[NPC Interaction]
Biggs: I've overseen a hundred such tests, but they still play hells with my nerves. And that's without the chief watching...
Cid: This is the Ironworks' first major project since my return. I mean to see that it's a success.
Magitek Reaper: ...


Wedge: Hop into the pilot's seat! We'll begin as soon as you're ready!
Wedge: First, I'd like you to try climbing that tangle of crystals yonder─as far up as you can go, if you please.
Wedge: Oh, and if for some reason you need to dismount, simply come back here and we'll start again.


Wedge: No anomalous movements evident from either leg. Good. Next, jump back down and then sprint north, quick as you can!
Wedge: Leg joints absorbing all impact without incident... Excellent. Please make your way back, Coral.
Wedge: The torso remains stable during vigorous motion... Excellent. And that concludes our test. Thank you for your cooperation!


Wedge: Here is a summary of my findings. The drivetrain is in sound condition. With some fine-tuning, we can expect a noticeable improvement in performance. As for the servomechanism...
Wedge: I'm afraid it's not nearly as responsive as it should be, and I'm at a loss to explain why. The mammet heart is in pristine condition, and should be installed correctly. Perhaps its inner workings are simply too different to operate harmoniously with the armor's other mechanisms?
Wedge: Whereas magitek cores serve only to conduct impulses, mammet hearts enable automata to process the information collected by their sensors as feeli─ <gasp> Feelings! Maybe she just doesn't feel like part of the team!? In which case, we should all do our best to make her feel welcome!


Wedge: Come on, everyone! Let's give Maggie here a warm welcome! Really make her feel at home!


[/welcome]
Magitek Reaper: <click>
Cid: I take it Wedge's suggestion has given you pause. Well, I don't blame you. The lad does have some rather unorthodox ideas. Still, orthodoxy did not give us language, tools, clothes...or machina. Short of a better idea, I don't suppose it would hurt to try.


Biggs: Daft as it felt, I gave it my best. I've welcomed myself to a bloody standstill. What were you expecting it to do anyway? Bob us a curtsy?
Cid: No doubt you're wondering why the servomechanism is so important as to warrant this silliness.
Cid: Without it, the pilot would be required to control the armor's every movement manually. This would be an onerous task at the best of times, and wholly impractical during battle.
Cid: Using a mammet heart in place of the worn magitek core seemed a promising solution. Alas, the device does not appear to be compatible with Garlean technology.
Cid: Wedge, are there no other ways we might demonstrate our appreciation to our friend here?
Wedge: I'm at my wit's end, Chief. She just...doesn't seem convinced. We could try a little dance, perhaps, or cheer our heads off...?
Biggs: Imperials! They've come for the armor!
Cid: Damn it! They have us cornered!
Imperial Centurion: There's the reaper!
Imperial Centurion: Taken by the traitor Garlond─and is that the eikon-slayer!? Oh, bollocks...
Imperial Centurion: Call for reinforcements!
Cid: The hells you will!


[Cid activated a device that cause nearby crystal to emit aether that interfere with the imperial’s communication]
Imperial Signaler: We've located the stolen reaper! Requesting immediate assistance! Respond! Respond!
Imperial Signaler: It's no use, sir! There's some sort of interference!
Imperial Centurion: Curse you, Garlond!
Imperial Centurion: No matter! If we can't reclaim it, destroy it!
Cid: Bloody hells... Coral─protect the armor at all costs!


[Battle]
5th Cohort Secutor: We cannot suffer the enemy to use our weapons against us!
Cid: You're not undoing our hard work!
Wedge: Uwaaah! Keep them away from Maggie!
Biggs: They're on their own! We can take them!


[Maggie activated and scanning the four]


Wedge: Chief, look! She moved!
Cid: Ah, now she deigns to grace us with her presence!
Cid: It took us a good while, but we're finally ready.
Cid: It's time to infiltrate Castrum Centri and rescue our comrades!


Wedge: There, the finishing touch!
[Wedge added the Scions Standard on Maggie]


[NPC Interaction]
Wedge: There, the finishing touch!
Wedge: What do you think, Coral? She's a beauty, isn't she?
Biggs: Ever seen an Ironworks engineer at work? Well, you're in for a treat, then! Stand back and enjoy the show!


Cid: The servomechanism is now fully functional─and all it took was a simple fight to the death. Remind me not to install a mammet heart aboard the Enterprise, would you? Much as I love her, I would rather not be required to profess it before boarding. But enough of that. Let us see to our final preparations.
Cid: Thanks to Biggs and Wedge's deft hands, the reaper is as good as new. We're as prepared as we're like to get!




Lv. 46        Escape from Castrum Centri
Cid: “How go your preparations, Coral? We leave as soon as you're ready.
Cid: Glaumunt! You came!
Glaumunt: Aye─thought I'd give you all a roarin' send-off. 'Tis the least I can do for the fine men an' women what're about to make my lifelong wish come true.
Cid: Well, we'll do our best! Hmm... It occurs to me, for all the help you've afforded us, we know little and less about you. What did the Empire do to earn your ire? ...Ah, but I fear I've put curiosity before consideration. I quite understand if you'd rather not relive those memories.
Glaumunt: No, no, I don't mind, really. Truth be told, a part o' me was itchin' to tell you my tale. Mind you, 'tis hardly novel─I ain't the first to suffer at imperial hands.
Glaumunt: Like most folk, I used to have a mother. She was a sweet, carin' woman with a smile never far from her face. There was a sister too. Pretty little thing, she was─gentle as a lamb, but tough as nails. We were poor folk livin' simple lives, but we knew happiness just the same.
Glaumunt: An' then the imperials came an' took it all away. When Ala Mhigo fell, they put my family in a camp. Bein' a lad, I was made to do hard labor, while my mother an' sister were forced to do far worse... They hid their sufferin' from me as best they could, but I knew, an' the thought of it drove me mad. We had to escape. An' so I hatched a plan to get us out o' the city.
Glaumunt: We were pickin' our way around a gorge not far outside the walls when they caught up with us... An' rather than allow 'emselves to be taken again, my mother an' sister leaped over the edge before my very eyes. Heartbroken as I was, I didn't put up a fight when the imperials clapped me in chains an' dragged me back.
Glaumunt: 'Twas some years after that I escaped again, an' that time, I got away. I swore then that I'd get revenge on the Empire, an' became an adventurer so as to hone my skills an' earn the coin I needed. But nigh on two decades've since gone by, an' what've I achieved? Bugger all, that's what.
Glaumunt: Not like you lot. You ain't been here ten minutes, an' you've already done more'n I managed in a ten bloody years.
Cid: You give us too much credit, Glaumunt. We seek only to rescue our friends.
Glaumunt: Well, what's more important than that? An' anyroad, after you've got your friends back, you're plannin' on goin' after the Empire, an' don't pretend you ain't.
Glaumunt: I've helped a few folk take on the imperials over the years, an' every time I have, it's helped stave off my appetite for revenge. But summat tells me I won't be goin' hungry for a while what with everythin' you've got planned.
Cid: And you are sure that will satisfy you? If you wish to strike back at the Empire with your own hand, you need only say the word. We would be glad to have you with us.
Glaumunt: Temptin' though your offer is, I'm afeared I must decline.
Glaumunt: I swore I'd get revenge on the Empire, 'tis true, but I've long since realized that the front lines are no place for a man like me.
Glaumunt: Aye, there's some as would call me craven, but I prefer to think o' myself as a realist. My talents lie in schemin', ye see, not swordplay. Helpin' folk like you is how I can make the most difference.
Glaumunt: ...But that's quite enough storytellin' for one day. Best not keep your friends waitin' any longer. I'll be prayin' for your safety an' success. May Rhalgr give you strength!
Cid: Wherever the Empire goes, misery invariably follows in its wake.
Cid: For the sake of all who call Eorzea home, we must put an end to Gaius's ambitions.
Cid: But first, we have friends to rescue.
Cid: Biggs, Wedge, and I will lie in wait east of Castrum Centri, just outside the stronghold's patrol perimeter.
Cid: Join us when you're ready.
Oh, and don't forget to wear your disguise, or this will be the shortest rescue mission in history.


[NPC Interaction]
Cid: There you are. A patrol should be heading back to the castrum any moment now, so for gods' sakes, don your disguise.
Cid: If you've misplaced your disguise, hurry back to Revenant's Toll. Glaumunt told me that he'd acquired some additional helms and robes for just such an eventuality. Whatever you do, though, do it swiftly. We need you here and in imperial uniform if this plan is going to work.


Cid: Forgive me for saying so, but you cut quite a dashing figure in imperial black and crimson! Ahhh, but now is not the time for jests.
Cid: Let's review the infiltration plan. Castrum Centri lies just beyond.
Cid: A short while ago, an imperial patrol left to do its rounds.
Cid: Alphinaud and I will create a diversion out here and keep them occupied for as long as we are able. Meanwhile, the three of you will enter the stronghold, posing as the patrol returning from duty.
Cid: Should Alphinaud and I prove less distracting than hoped, I will contact you via linkpearl. Be ready to beat a hasty retreat.
Cid: Wedge will lead the way in the reaper. Stay close to him.
Cid: And I hardly need tell you this, but don't do anything suspicious!
Cid: Oh, and lest you wonder, Yda and Y'shtola left shortly before you arrived. We had planned that they should linger in the vicinity, to cover our retreat in the event that Alphinaud and I attracted too much attention─but the approach of an imperial vehicle forced us to improvise.
Cid: Don't be too disappointed─they did at least leave a message for you. Something along the lines of “don't do anything reckless,” if memory serves. Wise words.
Cid: All right, the imperial patrol should be returning any moment now. You'd best be off.
Cid: Good luck, Coral! May the Twelve keep you!


[A slap can be heard]
Livia Sas Junius: You have spirit, that I will allow. Yet you struggle to the benefit of none, least of all yourself.
Livia Sas Junius: This “Echo” of yours intrigues us. We desire only to understand it. And for that, we need your help.
Livia Sas Junius: You wish to be rid of the eikons, do you not?
Livia Sas Junius: You would have saved yourself a great deal of torment had you accepted our aid from the beginning.


[Another slap, Minfilia fall, and Livia Sas Junius adds a kick to her stomach]
Livia Sas Junius: Tell me everything, and I shall end it quickly. Refuse, and though you beg for death, you shall not have it.
Livia Sas Junius: Which will it be?
Livia Sas Junius: As you wish, my dear Minfilia.
Livia Sas Junius: Unpleasant though it will be for all concerned, you leave us no choice but to employ more rigorous methods of study.
Livia Sas Junius: Be so kind as to deliver the prisoners to Castrum Meridianum.
Imperial Soldier: Yes, milady!
Minfilia: <whimper> <moan>


[NPC Interaction]
Wedge: H-How do I look, Coral? Do I cut an imposing f-figure as a Garlean s-soldier?
Biggs: Security's tight, just as we expected. We're going to need a special key if we want to get past this bulkhead.


Imperial Courier: But I'd best get back to my duties. The supplies aren't going to move themselves─and neither are the prisoners, come to that.
Imperial Courier: Oh, my apologies! I didn't notice you there, so engrossed was I in my task. You'd be engrossed, too, had the tribunus commanded you to arrange for the prisoners to be transported.
Imperial Courier: What prisoners do I speak of? ...You mean you haven't heard? Only the infamous “Scions of the Seventh Dawn,” captured by the tribunus herself! If you don't believe me, have a look in the storage tower when next you pass that way.
Imperial Courier: As if I didn't already have my hands full moving goods around, now I have to move people? <sigh> I really need to ask for a transfer...


Imperial Decurion: Part of the maintenance crew from Occidens, are you? I don't know what they teach you over there, but being an engineer does not exempt you from saluting your superiors!
mperial Decurion: Hm, that's a fine salute. Part of the maintenance crew from Occidens, are you? Welcome to Castrum Centri, engineer.
Imperial Decurion: What? Prisoners? Ah, you've heard the rumors, then. Yes, they're being held in the storage tower─but I strongly suggest you pay them no mind.
Imperial Decurion: You were summoned here to work, not to gawp at Eorzea's defeated heroes. Now show a bit of enthusiasm, or I'll have you reported.
Imperial Decurion: What do you think you're doing? Get back to your station, or I'll report you to the centurion!


Imperial Guard: Hm? Shouldn't I be at my post? <sigh> I suppose so, but such things don't seem to matter anymore. I've...I've fallen for one of the prisoners. She's all I can think about of late. Am I...am I a deviant for wanting her to salute me?
Imperial Guard: Greetings, comrade. Forgive me for asking, but you haven't visited the storage tower recently, have you? I only ask because I dropped something in there, and...um... Oh, who am I fooling!? I've fallen for one of the prisoners, all right!? I daresay you know the one I mean. ...Eh? The svelte blond? Goodness, no!
Imperial Guard: It's the Lalafell lass I'm smitten with! She's so adorable, it hurts! I want to sweep her up into my arms and squeeze her till my arms ache!
What do you reckon it would take to convince the centurion to lend me the key so I can see her?
Imperial Guard: <sigh> Would that I could hold you in my arms... Alas, we aren't meant to be... 


Imperial Centurion: Why are you not at your post? If you have business, salute me before opening your mouth.
Imperial Centurion: What's this? You need access to the storage tower? What business have you there?
Imperial Centurion: ...At the tribunus's behest, you say? This is highly irregular, but it would not do to make my lady wroth. Take my identification key. See that it is returned when your errand is concluded.
Imperial Centurion: Castrum Centri has been placed under high alert. Those found where they do not belong will be summarily punished.


Biggs: Security's tight, just as we expected. We're going to need a special key if we want to get past this bulkhead.


Affable Imperial: The prisoners? They are being held in the storage tower...as you should know, soldier.




Minfilia: No!
Biggs: Minfilia...and the rest! Thank goodness they're safe!
Minfilia: I am the one you want! Leave the others be!
Minfilia: If you harm my friends, I swear I shall take my own life─and you shall answer to your mistress!
Wedge: <gasp> T-Tataru! We must do something!
Biggs: We risk letting the entire castrum know we're here.
Biggs: Aye...you're right. We may not get a better chance.
Imperial Signaler: This is the third squadron. What is it?
Imperial Signaler: ...A reaper? Seized when?
Imperial Signaler: ...And this came to light only NOW!?
Imperial Signaler: The culprits will have left a trail. Take as many men as you need and scour the area! I want that reaper found!
Biggs: Now's our chance!
Imperial Signaler: What the─!? Strike my last!
Imperial Signaler: Eliminate the intruders!
Cid: This is it, Coral. Time to rescue our comrades.
Cid: This is it, Coral. Time to rescue our comrades.
Minfilia: No!
Biggs: Minfilia...and the rest! Thank goodness they're safe!
Minfilia: I am the one you want! Leave the others be!
Minfilia: If you harm my friends, I swear I shall take my own life─and you shall answer to your mistress!


[Tataru spotted Wedge, as Wedge took noticed, Tataru return to Minfilia’s behind]
Wedge: <gasp> T-Tataru! We must do something!
Biggs: We risk letting the entire castrum know we're here.
Biggs: Aye...you're right. We may not get a better chance.
Imperial Signaler: This is the third squadron. What is it?
Imperial Signaler: ...A reaper? Seized when?
Imperial Signaler: ...And this came to light only NOW!?
Imperial Signaler: The culprits will have left a trail. Take as many men as you need and scour the area! I want that reaper found!
Biggs: Now's our chance!
Imperial Signaler: What the─!? Strike my last!
Imperial Signaler: Eliminate the intruders!
















[Battle]
Minfilia: You came!
Tataru: Uwaaah!
Wedge: I'm coming!
Urianger: Unbind us, Coral. Together we may yet win free.
Papalymo: Coral! Get these shackles off us, quickly!
Papalymo's hands are free!
Urianger's hands are free!
5th Cohort Hoplomachus: Take them, whatever the cost!
Tataru: I won't give up!


[Battle End]
Tataru: <whimper> Coral! I was so scared!
Minfilia: It was foolish of you to come here. You might have been killed!
Minfilia: But...thank you. I shudder to think what might have happened had you not arrived when you did.
Papalymo: I say, did you not see Thancred anywhere? I'm beginning to fear for the fellow...
Urianger: To linger here shall yield us no answer. Let us away, ere the window to our liberty close shut.


[Outside]
Livia Sas Junius: ...What did you say? Escaped?
Livia Sas Junius: Then recapture them! Fail and I shall have your head.
Livia Sas Junius: ...And what have we here?
Y'shtola: ...The tribunus herself, just as you said. You have the eye of an ahriman, Yda.
Yda: Well...she's kind of hard to miss in that showy armor of hers.
Livia Sas Junius: Accursed Scions... How did you slip our defenses?
Y'shtola: With unexpected ease, if truth be told. There chanced to be a commotion outside the castrum's walls which allowed us to avail ourselves of the comforts of your vehicle.
Yda: Y'shtola's just being polite. That was one of the most uncomfortable things I've ever stowed away in. It's no wonder it's called the Phantom Train─no passenger would be seen dead on it!
Livia Sas Junius: So you scuttled in amidst the freight, like the vermin you are. I shall be sure to have words with our ratcatcher. Such negligence is unforgivable.
Y'shtola: That is far from your most pressing concern. First, you must answer for your own wrongdoing, Livia sas Junius.
Y'shtola: 'Twas you who led the raid on the Waking Sands─you who butchered unarmed men and women for the crime of being unworthy of capture.
Yda: You killed our friends! We'll never forgive you!
Y'shtola: Nor shall we suffer you to plague Eorzea a day longer. Betake you to your guard.
Imperial Sentry: More intruders! Protect the tribunus!
Y'shtola: Confound it! Yda, with me!
Imperial Sentry: After them!
Livia Sas Junius: Where is His Excellency?
Imperial Sentry: In the hangar, my lady─in discussion with our guest!
Livia Sas Junius: Alert him at once!
Imperial Sentry: Yes, my lady!
Livia Sas Junius: No! No, no, NO!


Imperial Sentry: There they are! Fan out and surround them!
Wedge: Must...protect...Tataru! Biggs─I'm going in! See everyone to safety!
Biggs: No! Wedge─don't do it!
Biggs: Oh, no... Coral─hold them off! I'll look after Minfilia and Tataru!


[Second Battle]
5th Cohort Hoplomachus: All units, to emergency stations! Do not let the prisoners escape!
Urianger: This infernal creation is shielded by energies not its own.
Papalymo: Whatever is generating its shield must be near! Find it, Coral!
The magitek field surrounding the vanguard is deactivated.
Papalymo: Ack! There's no end to them!
Urianger: We labor in vain! Till the beast be divested of its shield, our blows shall not find their mark.
The magitek field surrounding the vanguard is deactivated.
The magitek field surrounding the vanguard is deactivated.
5th Cohort Optio: You're not getting away! Bring forth the colossus!
Biggs: What in the hells...? A new design!
Minfilia: Have care!
Urianger: Ware the unknown foe.
Papalymo: So that's a colossus, is it!? More like a colossal waste of iron!


[Battle End]
Imperial Centurion: Take the leader! Kill the rest!
Minfilia: Y'shtola!
Y'shtola: Pray forgive us our delay!
Yda: Papalymo! Minfilia!
Minfilia: Yda!
Papalymo: What took you so long!?
Yda: Well, it's nice to see you too!
Y'shtola: The reunion must wait!
Yda: Right! First things first!
Papalymo: Yes, let's get back to being heavily outnumbered...
Wedge: Uwaaaaaah!
Biggs: You ditched your magitek armor!? Fool of a Lalafell!
Wedge: Well, excuse me! She's all yours if you think you can do any better!


[Maggie activates, stirs and distracts the imperial]
Imperial: But there’s no one in there!


Cid: This is Cid! Can you hear me!?
Cid: I need you to count to five, then jump! Understood!?
Y'shtola: One...
Yda: Two!
Papalymo: Three!
Minfilia: Four!


[They jump into the Enterprise]


Gaius Van Baelsar: I know not which is more pitiful: the charlatans who rule Eorzea...
Gaius Van Baelsar: ...or the masses that clamor for their implausible panaceas.
Gaius Van Baelsar: I see that which they cannot. This realm founders for want of a ruler with true power─the power to cast down eikons.
Gaius Van Baelsar: If you continue to deny this truth, it is the people who will suffer. Embrace reason.
Cid: <gasp>


[A laser shot towards the Enterprise during escape, and avoided it.]
Cid: What in the seven hells─!?


[On the ground, the Ultima Weapon]
Alphinaud: Oh no... It's here!
Minfilia: Twelve preserve us... They finished it. Ultima Weapon...
Alphinaud: So it has a name...
Minfilia: It is a relic of ancient Allag, excavated from its resting place deep beneath Ala Mhigo.
Minfilia: The Allagans used it to crush primal and foe alike...and now the Garleans mean to do the same!
Cid: Damn you, Gaius!
Alphinaud: Look! There, beside the Black Wolf!
Alphinaud: An Ascian!
Alphinaud: An overlord, no less. His garb attests to that.
Minfilia: Lahabrea! It could only be him!


[Lahabrea unvealed his hood and mask]
Minfilia: Thancred!
Minfilia: He was Lahabrea...? No... No, this cannot be!
Cid: We have to go now! Hang on!
Minfilia: Thancred! NOOOOOO!
Lahabrea: Ahahaha... Muahahahahaha!


[On the enterprise, Minfilia speak to her linkpearl on the background, speaking of an item that is to be delivered for her]
Alphinaud: All that time, the enemy was beside me, and I never even suspected.
Alphinaud: And to think that it was I who suggested that Thancred investigate the Ascians! How could I have been so blind!?
Alphinaud: Small wonder the enemy knew our every move─and where to find us! Confound it all!
Alphinaud: No... No, this is not the time for self-doubt. The Alliance leaders staked their hopes on the Scions, but now they believe us all dead or missing.
Alphinaud: When they learn of the Empire's new weapon, we cannot be certain what they will do.
Alphinaud: We must go and offer them what assurances we can that defeat is not inevitable!
Alphinaud: The situation may have taken an ill turn...
Alphinaud: But the battle is far from over. And so long as we stand together, there shall ever be hope of victory.
Alphinaud: The people of Eorzea falter for want of such hope. Let us provide it. Let us bear to them the tidings that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn are returned!
Alphinaud: Matters are coming to a head. I hope we can count on you.
Minfilia: ...My regards to Grandfather.
Minfilia: I am ready. Let us pay a visit to the council of the Alliance leadership.


[Within the Fragrant Chamber of Ul’dah]
Raubahn: Hells take the Black Wolf and his new toy...
Merlwyb: Rally all available forces. I want them ready to move upon my word.
Merlwyb: And relay to Slafyrsyn the order to sail. That is all.
Merlwyb: The Maelstrom stands ready. What of the Flames?
Raubahn: Ready as we're like to be. I need only give the word to Roaille.
Kan-E-Senna: Has there been no word from Ishgard?
Raubahn: None. The dragons have got their tongues.
Kan-E-Senna: Silent to the last. I was unwise to hope for better.
Merlwyb: What would stir the archbishop to open his holy mouth, if not this!? And he claims the Fury for his god... 'Tis bad comedy!
Nanamo Ul Namo: The Holy See has made its choice. We will proceed without its cooperation.
Nanamo Ul Namo: I believe we are all acquainted with the terms of the Black Wolf's ultimatum.


[The Three revealed the Ultimatum received from the Imperial]
Nanamo Ul Namo: We must agree upon a course of action. Naught less than the fate of Eorzea hangs upon the decision of this council.
Raubahn: Van Baelsar claims to wield the power to smite primals.
Kan-E-Senna: Should we yield to him, he pledges to rid the realm of its false gods. Yet offer resistance, and he swears that we shall share the primals' fate.
Merlwyb: Pardon me my bluntness, but I like not these choices.
Nanamo Ul Namo: This is too great a decision for any one of our nations to make alone.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Choose we surrender or resistance, we must answer as one, for if but one surrenders, the rest shall surely fall. Let us pray for the wisdom to do right by all our peoples.


[NPC Interaction]
Cid: Sorry we had to resort to such dramatic methods to escape. Things escalated so quickly that Alphinaud and I saw no other alternative.
Biggs: That wasn't at all how I expected things to play out, but at least we escaped with our lives.
Wedge: (What do you think, Coral? Was she impressed? Do you think she might consider...you know...)
Tataru: Deep in the desert of my heart, a lonely flower blooms♪
Yearning for the heavens above to quench my thirst for you.♪
Trololololo～lololo～♪
Tataru: Oh, Coral! I hope my singing doesn't bother you. I'm rather fond of this little ditty─it reminds me of home.
Alphinaud: Once the people of Eorzea learn that the Scions of the Seventh Dawn have returned, they will surely rally to our cause. We need only sound the clarion call.


Minfilia: Thancred's plight troubles us all, yet we cannot allow anything to come between us and our goal.
Minfilia: So long as the Ultima Weapon exists, Eorzea will never know peace.
Minfilia: Let us go to the Alliance leaders, Coral, and help them to make the right decision.




Lv. 46        The Black Wolf’s Ultimatum
Minfilia: Grim tidings, Coral. It seems that word of the Ultima Weapon's existence has already reached the Alliance leaders...in the form of an ultimatum. They have gathered in the Fragrant Chamber, and are deliberating their answer even as we speak.
Minfilia: Beleaguered as they are, I fear they may well elect to lay down their arms in the belief that surrender will spare their people untold suffering. Yet nothing could be further from the truth.
Minfilia: That which the Black Wolf offers will doom Eorzea, not deliver it, and the leaders must be made aware of this. Let us hurry to them, Coral, and ensure that they do not act in ignorance of the consequences.


[NPC Interaction]
Minfilia: The Alliance leaders have gathered in the Fragrant Chambers. Let us hurry to them, and ensure that they do not act without the full knowledge of the consquences.


Bartholomew: The council of Alliance leaders is presently in progress in the Fragrant Chamber. I must ask that you step away from the doors, sir.
Bartholomew: ...I'm sorry? You're here on behalf of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn!? A thousand pardons, my lord! Of course you may enter!
Raubahn: Bah! We keep treading the same ground.
Merlwyb: Van Baelsar's demands are clear...
Kan-E-Senna: Alas, our minds are not.
Raubahn: I've never been one to shy from a fight. But if this weapon of theirs can do all they claim...
Kan-E-Senna: It has been five years since the Calamity, and our people have scarce begun to rebuild their lives.
Kan-E-Senna: Can we now, in good conscience, call upon them to risk what little they have left? I would spare them the pain of further conflict.
Kan-E-Senna: Conflict, I say, though that would imply forces set in opposition. If the combined might of three primals could not stay Garlemald's new terror...
Kan-E-Senna: What meaningful resistance can we offer? We who struggle to quell the foes who rise up within our own borders...
Merlwyb: Long have we fought the primals, but to what end? We strike them down at no small cost, only for them to rise again, and again.
Merlwyb: Are we to play this profitless game for the rest of days? I for one grow tired of it.
Merlwyb: Mistake me not, I do not propose to trade one tyranny for another.
Merlwyb: I love liberty. But conciliation need not mean oppression.
Raubahn: By the Twelve... Though neither of you cried “surrender,” your every word betokened it.
Raubahn: Not that I deny there is truth in what you say. Nor can I rightly claim that Ul'dah is ready to fight.
Raubahn: Refugees flood our gates, and beastmen swarm our land, while the great and the good do nothing. My Flames struggle to bear the burden.
Raubahn: I put on a grand show at the remembrance service, made all manner of lofty promises... I've made good on not a bloody one.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Do not blame yourself, Raubahn. You said only that which the people needed to hear. All present have done the same.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Our citizens had become lost to hope. If our words served to kindle it in them anew, better we speak than remain silent.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Our enemy condemns us for failing our people, yet what does he care for their well-being?
Nanamo Ul Namo: While we labored to rebuild their lives, the Black Wolf built instruments of murder with which to end them.
Kan-E-Senna: Her Majesty speaks true. For all our failings, the people's well-being has ever been our foremost priority.
Kan-E-Senna: While none among us ever doubted that the Empire would one day resume its war, we scarcely had means enough to solve the problems of the present.
Merlwyb: Aye, which is why we looked to others to safeguard our future─
Merlwyb: The Scions of the Seventh Dawn. Alas, they are gone, and the Black Wolf is at our door.
Alphinaud: Admiral, I fear you are mistaken!




Merlwyb: Alphinaud? Minfilia? And─seven hells─MASTER GARLOND!
Kan-E-Senna: And you, dear friend...
Raubahn: By Rhalgr... You're alive! All of you!
Alphinaud: As we approached, I would swear I heard talk of surrender, but I know that cannot be! It is not the Eorzean way!
Minfilia: Hear me, my friends! Accepting the Garleans' offer to vanquish the primals would be folly.
Minfilia: Folly, I say, for might is not the answer to the primal threat. Indeed, the more the Empire exerts its strength, the worse matters will become.
Minfilia: Primals enter this world when mortals call upon them, and mortals are wont to appeal to a higher power when they are desperate.
Minfilia: Nothing is more certain to breed desperation in the beast tribes than the Garleans' proposed solution.
Alphinaud: The true answer lies in a lasting peace, but the Garleans only know war and conquest. Should Eorzea fall into their hands, there will be such suffering as none can imagine.
Minfilia: We are not blind to the many challenges that each of your nations face. Yet you must not give in.
Alphinaud: Aye! Remember five years ago, when you wagered all for the sake of the realm! Remember what you fought for, what you were willing to die for!
Alphinaud: Let the memories rekindle the fire in your heart, for Eorzea has need of it again!
Minfilia: Come what may, we Scions will never give up the fight.
Minfilia: And so I bid you stand with us, and together we shall safeguard the future of the realm!
Cid: A great man once said that a shrewd merchant grasps not for the quick profit, but invests in the future. Wise words...eh, Raubahn?
Raubahn: Cid... I...
Kan-E-Senna: Your words stir...and shame me in equal measure. How could I contemplate surrender...?
Kan-E-Senna: I know full well that all we have, we owe to the sacrifices of those who went before us. Yet the seeming hopelessness of our plight robbed me of my insight.
Kan-E-Senna: We Gridanians have no love for war...
Kan-E-Senna: Yet we have still less for those who would threaten our homeland. Ever have we fought to protect those things we hold dear, and this shall never change.
Kan-E-Senna: Gridania will go to war. We will fight the Empire, for the sake of the realm and all who abide here!
Nanamo Ul Namo: Ahaha... Ahahahaha!
Nanamo Ul Namo: Hahaha! Hear, hear!
Merlwyb: Hahahaha...
Raubahn: Hah hah hah hah!
Nanamo Ul Namo: At long last, I hear words worthy of a founder of the Alliance!
Nanamo Ul Namo: Raubahn! Are we to be outdone!?
Raubahn: I lost one homeland. The thought of losing another had blunted my resolve.
Raubahn: But no man knows better than I that if you want aught, you'd best be ready to die for it.


Raubahn: With great danger comes the chance for great glory, and great profit─we Ul'dahns, who have turned sand into gold, know this well.
Raubahn: How many times have we fallen into the pit of despair, only to have you pluck us out? I've fair lost count.
Merlwyb: Reckless, the lot of you─like bloody pirates! Well, I won't waste my breath trying to talk you round...
Merlwyb: ...On account of being a pirate myself. And the pirate who shrinks from a challenge is no pirate at all!
Merlwyb: Those who would pick a quarrel with us must choose: back down, or go down with all hands.
Merlwyb: Let the Garleans come. The united strength of Limsa Lominsa will be waiting for them!
Nanamo Ul Namo: If our realm is to be free of this pall of darkness, let it be by our own hands!
Leaders: For Eorzea!


[As soon as they burn the ultimatum, the founders discuss tactics over a map]
Nanamo Ul Namo: Be at ease, my friends. You have banished our doubts.
Nanamo Ul Namo: Pray leave the military matters to us, and retire to the Waking Sands. We will send word anon.




[NPC Interaction]
Slafswys: My dear sister drew her last breath here, in battle with the Empire. To her, the fight for Eorzea's future was more important than her homeland. True to her beliefs to the end, she was...
Radolf: No matter how dark the night, one day the dawn will break. As long as brave souls like yourself take up our cause, the Scions will never stand down!
Arenvald: I should have done something, done anything. But I didn't, and now A'aba and Aulie are... 
Arenvald: I will not let it be for nothing. I...I will earn this.
Urianger: Souls from aether far, strangers from strange lands,
Yester with thine eyes, morrow by thine hands.
Urianger: By my reckoning, these words from the Divine Chronicles tell of the Warriors of Light, those dauntless heroes who shall lead us from the darkness of the Seventh Umbral Era.
Urianger: With cloudless vision of the past, they forge the way into the future. Mine interpretation, it ringeth true with that which I have witnessed.
Wedge: (She hasn't said a word to me since the rescue. Was it all for nothing!?)
Biggs: What's next on the agenda? We're ready to get to work!
Cid: For many years I dedicated my life to the research and development of magitek, unable or unwilling to see the repercussions of my work. And though I have since left Garlemald behind, their scientists continue to build upon my work.
Cid: I fear that this new weapon may be another example of that─an ancient relic enhanced with technologies I created. Yet even should that be the case, it would still require a brilliant mind to─
Cid: No... no he didn't... 
Tataru: I understand you gave our fallen brothers and sisters a proper burial. I'm sure they appreciated it.
Tataru: When the Empire is beaten and all of this over, let us visit them at the church.
Alphinaud: The counteroffensive to come will require the total commitment of every allied nation, as well as the flawless coordination of all forces. I pray the council understands this.
Papalymo: Had I not intervened, that Garlean soldier may well have done for Yda. Lowering her guard in the heat of battle as though she was on an evening stroll─how much of a scatterbrain can she be?
Papalymo: <sigh> Well, at least we cannot fault her for being inconsistent!
Yda: Hmph! Instead of gratitude for coming to his rescue, Papalymo called me a scatterbrain!
Yda: The next time he gets caught by the Empire, I'm leaving him to rot!
Y'shtola: We may have surmounted this latest trial, but the worst is yet to come.
Y'shtola: We must remain focused─I will not see our efforts wasted in futile regret. And as for Thancred... He and I have much to discuss.


Minfilia: I cannot well express my relief. To think that the Alliance came so close to surrender...
Cid: But the fire in their hearts has been rekindled, and they will fight to the last.
Alphinaud: This warmth inside... Did you feel it too, Grandfather?
Alphinaud: I would know something─was that your power at work earlier?
Minfilia: Nothing of the sort. The leaders of Eorzea had lost their way─I merely helped them to find it again.


[Minfilia’s linkpearl]
Minfilia: Oh, hello!
...Yes, our party returned just a moment ago. How close are you?


[Knocks on the door]
Minfilia: It's all right, Cid.
Alphinaud: We must needs plan our next move. Pray continue liaising with your respective nations. Cid, would you be our man in Ul'dah?
Cid: I'll be whatever and wherever you need me to be!
Minfilia: Thancred's fate weighs heavy on my mind. I cannot bear to think of him in thrall to an Ascian.
Minfilia: Mayhap you know this already, but the Ascians are immortal beings without physical form. Since time immemorial, they have fanned the flames of chaos from the shadows.
Minfilia: That they might work unseen, the Ascians entrap and possess mortal men by means of malign artifacts known as Crystals of Darkness.
Minfilia: One such Crystal may yet be the key to saving Thancred.
Alphinaud: This is a Crystal of Darkness?
Y'shtola: A mere replica, created using data obtained from anomalous crystals found across Eorzea.
Minfilia: It comes to us courtesy of the Students of Baldesion, our distant allies.
Minfilia: Even for an Archon, Thancred's talents are exceptional. We all had complete confidence in him.
Minfilia: It was for this reason that none among us foresaw the danger in sending him to investigate the Ascians alone.
Papalymo: Thancred had been striving to fill the void left by Louisoix. Yet it was plain that he was overtaxing himself.
Yda: Yeah... He would volunteer for everything and work till he was dizzy.
Alphinaud: And the toll taken by his exertions made him vulnerable to Ascian influence...
Minfilia: The Crystal that binds Thancred must be somewhere on his person. If we could but destroy it, his Ascian possessor would be compelled to relinquish control over him.
Minfilia: You have proven the stoutest of allies, standing with us through thick and thin.
Minfilia: Yet the most perilous struggle is still to come. For the sake of the realm─and Thancred─I ask that you lend us your strength once more.
Minfilia: Thank you. From the bottom of my heart.
Minfilia: As I am sure you are aware, the realm was saved from certain doom five years ago by heroes known as the Warriors of Light.
Minfilia: What you may not be aware of is that your many feats in service to the Scions have prompted folk to make certain...comparisons.
Minfilia: I must confess, you do remind me of them.
Minfilia: Yet remember this: however glorious the past, it is the hero's lot to be judged on the deeds of the present.
Minfilia: A new darkness threatens the realm, and the people cry out for a savior.
Minfilia: I believe that you are he─a Warrior of Light, here in the present, guided by the Crystal's will.
Minfilia: Come, my friends! Let us fight to safeguard the future of our beloved Eorzea!


[NPc Interaction]
Minfilia: You have become a symbol of hope to all the people of Eorzea, Coral, and I believe this to be no mere coincidence.
Minfilia: The path you have walked and the battles you have fought─all were of your own choosing. Everything you are, you owe to the choices you have made.




Lv. 49        Operation Archon
Minfilia: All present? Then let us begin.
Alphinaud: We have received the details of the impending operation.
Alphinaud: In what promises to be the largest single counteroffensive in the realm's troubled history, the Alliance will strike at every imperial stronghold standing upon Eorzean soil.
Alphinaud: As might be expected, the operation will be complex, but you need not commit its intricacies to memory.
Alphinaud: It is enough that each man understands his part and plays it to the best of his ability.
Minfilia: The finer instructions, you will receive at each staging point.
Alphinaud: To begin, let us review the distribution of our forces.
Alphinaud: From west to east─the Maelstrom of Limsa Lominsa, the Immortal Flames of Ul'dah, and the Order of the Twin Adder of Gridania.
Minfilia: Next, let us examine the locations of the imperial strongholds.
Minfilia: Near Limsa Lominsa, we have Castrum Occidens, situated in eastern Vylbrand, and Castrum Marinum, which lies to the south and east, in the midst of the Rhotano Sea.
Minfilia: Near Ul'dah, we have Castrum Meridianum to the north, and the coastal outpost at Cape Westwind which connects Castrum Marinum to the mainland by means of a magitek transporter.
Minfilia: Near Gridania, we have Castrum Oriens, which lies upon the eastern edge of the Twelveswood.
Minfilia: And finally, in Mor Dhona...stands Castrum Centri. A thorn in the heart of Eorzea.
Alphinaud: The forthcoming operation will see Allied forces assault each of the aforementioned locations, with the ultimate objective of destroying the Empire's new weapon, housed within Castrum Meridianum.
Alphinaud: As one might expect of the Black Wolf's seat of power, Castrum Meridianum boasts all but impenetrable defenses. If we are to breach it, we must needs isolate it from its sister strongholds.
Y'shtola: To do otherwise would be to risk being caught 'twixt hammer and anvil.
Alphinaud: The operation will comprise four distinct phases, all told.
Alphinaud: The first shall see us eliminate one of the Black Wolf's most trusted lieutenants─Rhitahtyn sas Arvina.
Alphinaud: According to our intelligence, the praefectus is due to visit the imperial outpost at Cape Westwind for an inspection.
Alphinaud: When he arrives, we shall dispatch an elite adventurer unit to eliminate him. Coral, we would have you lead this assault.
Papalymo: Rhitahtyn is a peerless field tactician. Shorn of his leadership, the garrison at Castrum Occidens will be as a snake without its head.
Alphinaud: Phase two will see us sever Castrum Meridianum's primary lines of supply.
Alphinaud: As soon as Rhitahtyn's presence is confirmed at the coastal outpost, the Maelstrom will lay siege to Castrum Occidens.


Alphinaud: At that very hour, the Lominsan Armada, helmed by the Admiral herself, shall move to blockade Castrum Marinum.
Minfilia: Meanwhile, in the Twelveswood, the Order of the Twin Adder will surround Castrum Oriens.
Yda: And they'll have the sylphs to help them! Frixio's been waiting for a chance to avenge these ones!
Alphinaud: Phase three shall see us neutralize Castrum Meridianum's defenses.
Alphinaud: Forming our main thrust, the Immortal Flames will march against the stronghold with all their strength. While the enemy's eyes are thus drawn outwards, another elite adventurer unit shall infiltrate the castrum.
Alphinaud: Its mission: to disable the magitek field generator which protects the Praetorium, a fortress within a fortress wherein the Ultima Weapon is believed to be housed. Coral, we would have you take command once more.
Minfilia: Meanwhile, the Order of the Twin Adder will blockade the railway which connects Centri and Meridianum, preventing the timely arrival of reinforcements from Mor Dhona.
Papalymo: A wise precaution. The monstrous locomotive which runs back and forth between the two castra is capacious enough to transport a small army, by all accounts.
Y'shtola: It is well the Garleans did not think to give it wings.
Minfilia: Once Meridianum's defenses have been compromised, the operation will enter its fourth and final phase.
Alphinaud: This will see the Immortal Flames enter the stronghold and suppress the remnants of the enemy garrison.
Alphinaud: ...Allowing Coral's unit to pass unopposed into the Praetorium, where they will locate and destroy the Ultima Weapon.
Alphinaud: By this feat shall the operation be deemed a success.
Alphinaud: In addition to the Grand Companies, we can count upon the support of a variety of other parties, from the pirates of Limsa Lominsa to the Monetarists of Ul'dah. In all, the operation will involve no fewer than twelve major factions.
Alphinaud: Legend holds that the Archons were twelve in one, and one in twelve...
It is for this reason that our grand endeavor has been dubbed “Operation Archon.”
Minfilia: Countless free companies have also pledged their swords, and more join us by the day. At long last, all of Eorzea is rising as one.
Alphinaud: As before, we Scions shall work in concert with the Grand Companies. Yda, Papalymo, Y'shtola─pray accompany your respective organizations on their missions.
Minfilia: Urianger, I would have you represent us in Ul'dah. Reassure the financiers that they have made a sound investment. When that is done, pray return here and aid in the coordination of our forces.
Minfilia: Tataru, please assist Urianger in any way you are able, and ensure that everyone is kept abreast of the latest developments.
Alphinaud: Minfilia, Cid, and I shall accompany the main host in an advisory capacity. It will be our task to analyze intelligence as it comes into our possession, and make the necessary recommendations to command.
Minfilia: As Alphinaud mentioned, you are to lead the elite unit of adventurers whose task it will be to see each of Operation Archon's main objectives fulfilled. Yours is the most important role of all, and like to be the most dangerous. Pray choose your party well, and stint not in your preparation.
Alphinaud: The battle for the future of the realm is about to begin. Together, let us show the Black Wolf the power of a united Eorzea!
Minfilia: Pray report to the Immortal Flames encampment situated to the north of here when you are ready to be briefed on your first mission.
Minfilia: I cannot stress this enough, but please be careful. May you walk in the light of the Crystal.


[NPC Interaction]
Minfilia: As briefed, you are to lead a squad of elite adventurers on infiltration missions. You will receive detailed orders at each staging point.
Minfilia: The future of Eorzea hinges upon the success of Operation Archon, and casualties are inevitable. May the Crystal watch over us all.
Yda: ...Sixty-two, sixty-three, sixty─
Yda: Oh, Coral! Just warming up...<pant>...for the operation. We're going to accompany...<pant>...the Gridanians. Um...<pant>...how many times was that...?
Papalymo: Gods' sake, Yda! We have the operation to think about, and you're wearing yourself down by exercising!? Your form isn't even correct! It's cheating to swing your arms!
Papalymo: I appreciate that you have nervous energy, but there will be no shortage of opportunities to expend it when we go toe to toe against the Garleans!
Wedge: <sigh> Tataru...  I suppose it wasn't meant to be... 
Biggs: The chief? To be honest, I don't know where he is or what he's up to at the moment. Probably busy doing something only he can do.
Alphinaud: Each phase of Operation: Archon must be executed to perfection, Coral. The fate of Eorzea hangs in the balance!
Y'shtola: The Maelstrom has committed its forces to the operation. In fact, the pirates look forward to their part in this naval warfare with something approaching unholy glee.
Y'shtola: You need only concentrate on the task that lies before you. We stand vigilant at your back.
Urianger: Souls from aether far, strangers from strange lands,
Yester with thine eyes, morrow by thine hands.
Bremondt: Listen to these two, swappin' their stories. Life ain't always got to be an adventure, I say. Me, I'm the sort who enjoys a nice, relaxin' carriage ride, paired with a bottle of Bacchus─like that time I met you, come to think of it.
Brennan: Bah, Brendt thinks he had it bad. Try bribin' a pirate an' see where that gets you! 
Brendt: Have a seat, lad! I was just tellin' me brothers about the time these Amalj'aa saved me from the Brass Blades. Hard to believe, I know, but it's true!
Dariustel: This was all his idea. Yet, in the end, he was the one who had to go and... <sigh> Godsdamned fool.
Tataru: The entire headquarters is up in arms! I can scarce stay abreast of all the goings-on!


Allied Communications Officer: You are well come, Coral Ferrinas of the Scions. As communications officer, it falls to me to issue you your orders, and provide guidance on forthcoming missions.
Allied Communications Officer: Your first mission is to infiltrate the imperial outpost at Cape Westwind and eliminate Praefectus Rhitahtyn sas Arvina.
Allied Communications Officer: All participating units are now in position and awaiting your arrival. Please proceed to the staging point and report to Lieutenant Adalbert.
Allied Communications Officer: This is but the first step in our bid to purge the realm of the Garlean menace. I shall pray for your success!


Adalbert: So you're Coral Ferrinas, the fearless adventurer who's to lead the assault. We've been expecting you.
Adalbert: Our Maelstrom friends report that Rhitahtyn sas Arvina departed Castrum Occidens a bell ago.
Adalbert: And sure enough, a convoy of imperial airships landed here just now.
Adalbert: The likelihood is high that our target was aboard one of the vessels. I've dispatched scouts to verify his presence before we strike.
Flame Runner: Command to all units. Requesting status report.
1st Platoon Soldier: This is Antlion I. Target has not been sighted.
2nd Platoon Soldier: This is Antlion II. Likewise, target has not been sighted.
3rd Platoon Soldier: Antlion III here. We've got nothin' for ye neither.
4th Platoon Soldier: This is Antlion IV. Nothing to report as of─
4th Platoon Soldier: Wait! Disregard previous message! Target sighted. I say again: target sighted.
Flame Runner: Understood. Hold your position.
Adalbert: Attention, all units. This is Cotter.
Adalbert: The first step of Operation Archon begins with us. Should we falter here, all hope of victory will be lost.
Adalbert: 'Tis no small burden, but know that I believe in all of you. So believe in yourselves, and together we will blaze a path for our brothers and sisters of the Alliance to follow.
Adalbert: We will create multiple diversions and disperse the enemy garrison. That should give your people a chance to breach their defenses.
Adalbert: Go now, Coral, and bring us Rhitahtyn's head! May Rhalgr grant you strength!
Adalbert: Commence diversionary maneuvers!








[The scene changed to the adventurer]
Cid: 'Tis I! It seems you've done it again, Coral!
Cid: I'd raise a tankard to you, but I'm afraid we've no time to savor the victory. There's still the small matter of infiltrating Castrum Meridianum and destroying the Ultima Weapon!
Cid: I know, I know...no rest for the preternaturally gifted. Now stop feeling sorry for yourself, and make your way back to the Immortal Flames' encampment. The communications officer will issue you your orders. I'll be waiting for you with the main host.
Lahabrea: Look, Hydaelyn─your minion comes...bringing the Light.


[A dark figures appears behind him, watching he adventurer as he walks away]
Lahabrea: Alas, the gate to the void already stands open. Soon, Darkness shall consume all, and you shall bow down before the one true god.
Lahabrea: Ahahahahaha!


[Within an Imperial stronghold]
Gaius Van Baelsar: The praefectus...slain?
Imperial Officer: Regrettably so, my lord. And at the hand of the eikon-slayer, if the centurion who survived the attack is to be believed.
Livia Sas Junius: Rhitahtyn...
Gaius Van Baelsar: Where were his men when he faced the enemy!? Fleeing, even as their commander yielded up his last breath!? If it should prove they questioned his right...
Imperial Officer: I-I cannot speak for them, my lord.
Imperial Officer: ...Beg pardons, my lord, but there is more. The Maelstrom has laid siege to Castrum Occidens.
Imperial Officer: Likewise, the Crimson Fleet moves to blockade Castrum Marinum.
Gaius Van Baelsar: So this is their answer...
Gaius Van Baelsar: Very well! We shall crush them as we crushed the eikons!
Gaius Van Baelsar: Go forth and show them the futility of their resistance!
Tribuni: Yes, my lord!


Allied Communications Officer: Scion Ferrinas! Your deeds this day are an inspiration to us all!
Allied Communications Officer: With the death of the praefectus, Operation Archon has entered its second phase. Even as we speak, the Maelstrom moves to blockade Castrum Occidens and Castrum Marinum.
Allied Communications Officer: And far to the east, in the Black Shroud, the Order of the Twin Adder advances upon Castrum Oriens.
Allied Communications Officer: Already, you have done much to advance our cause, performing such feats as are worthy of song─but if our plan is to succeed, more is required of you.
Allied Communications Officer: Let me know when your preparations are in order, and I shall relay to you the particulars of your next mission.






Lv. 49        A Hero in Need
Allied Communications Officer: Phase two of the operation is presently in motion. Our brothers and sisters of the Maelstrom are holding their own against Garlean forces upon Vylbrand and the Rhotano Sea. Ere long, the third phase will begin and you must take to the field once more.
Allied Communications Officer: The Immortal Flames shall strike at Castrum Meridianum by way of a diversionary maneuver. While the Garleans are thus locked in battle, you are to infiltrate the stronghold and bring down the magitek field that surrounds the Praetorium.
Allied Communications Officer: The staging point for the mission lies in the shadow of Castrum Meridianum in northern Thanalan, and that is where you must go. On your way there, however, I would ask that you make a brief stop at Camp Bluefog, one of our key outposts in the area.
Allied Communications Officer: The garrison, I am told, is in low spirits, and it would do our troops well to see the hero of Cape Westwind appear before them. For the good of our cause, please stoke the fire in their hearts.


Cracked Fist: Ah, Sergeant Ferrinas! Yours is a most welcome presence here at Camp Bluefog!
Cracked Fist: Logistically speaking, we are ready to march on Castrum Meridianum at a moment's notice. Alas, while our troops are here in body, their minds are anywhere but.
Cracked Fist: The garrison's mood is dark, so daunting is the prospect of joining what may prove to be the bloodiest battle in history. But with a hero such as you walking among them, we may yet rekindle the dwindling embers within their souls.


Lv. 49        The Ladle in the Darkness
Cracked Fist: I have a favor to ask of you, as a fellow comrade of the Alliance. As I mentioned, the garrison's mood is dark. The fault, it pains me to admit, is partly mine.
Cracked Fist: I am no veteran of large-scale campaigns, you see, and the men and women under me are nervous for this knowledge.
Cracked Fist: Seeking to lift their spirits, I remembered the tale of a Gridanian general from a century past. Vainchelon was his name, and he was a lancer of great renown. History holds that, in spite of his rank, he would regularly cook meals for his troops while afield.
Cracked Fist: Most generals know to break bread with their own men on occasion to foster camaraderie, but Vainchelon took it one step further. By actually making that bread, he showed that he was truly one of them─a hero and a comrade.
Cracked Fist: Though I wouldn't presume to compare myself to a man of his stature, I thought it might be well to at least emulate the deed. To be sure, this is a testament to my desperation.
Cracked Fist: I had begun making preparations for basilisk stew, all the while wondering whether it would be any good, when an honest-to-gods hero appeared. I speak of you, of course.
Cracked Fist: My gratitude would know no bounds if you could take up the ladle in my stead. The stew is just about ready─all it needs is some basilisk meat, which can be readily had north of here. Please procure the meat and add it to the cauldron bubbling just outside the camp.
Cracked Fist: When the stew is ready, I would ask that you also distribute it among our troops. Receiving the stew from you is certain to give them heart. I doubt I can say the same were it to come from my hands.


Betyn: I-I think I'll pretend to be sick. That way I won't have to fight. Maybe they'll even send me home to my family. It's not as if one man would make a difference, right?
Betyn: You made this stew...for me? I...I never dreamed that I would share a meal with a hero, let alone partake of something he made. I wanted to be a hero, too, you know─to my family. I took up arms because I wanted to protect them...and I will! I won't run─not today, nor any other!
Adelena: Gods, this is all so hopeless! The Garleans are going to crush us with their steel monstrosities! We're all going to die! <sob>
Adelena: I'm...I'm so sorry. I don't know what came over me. Your words and this hearty stew have given me courage. Yes, a fire positively burns in my belly! ...Or is it just the basilisk venom?
Zezeragi: Brrr... It's always so dark here...and cold... Maybe I shouldn't have enlisted... It's not like killing Garleans will bring my friend back...
Zezeragi: Mmmmmm, this smells good...
<gasp> Aren't you the adventurer who triumphed at Cape Westwind? To think that a hero fights beside us! And this stew, it whets my appetite for vengeance! Just you wait, you Garlean whoresons! I'm coming for your heads! Muahahaha!


Cracked Fist: Your basilisk stew has done wonders for our troops' morale! I cannot thank you enough!
Cracked Fist: The seeming hopelessness of the situation─not to mention this accursed gloom─had dampened their spirits, and for a time they had forgotten their purpose. But your presence and culinary skills helped them to remember, and I'm confident they will do their part to protect the realm and their loved ones.








Lv. 49        All Upon the Watchtowers
Cracked Fist: Before you continue on your way, there is one more favor I would ask of you.
Cracked Fist: North of Camp Bluefog, approximately halfway to the Ceruleum Processing Plant, there stand two Alliance watchtowers. I would be grateful if you could bear a message to our sentries at each.
Cracked Fist: When the next phase of the operation commences, linkshell communications may be disrupted for a time. Should this happen, messages must be conveyed the old-fashioned way─on foot, or with fire.
Cracked Fist: The west watchtower is under the care of one Private Wymund, while the east is held by Private Hopeful Dawn. On my behalf, please remind them to be fully prepared for this eventuality.
Cracked Fist: Once you have visited both, continue north and then west to the Ceruleum Processing Plant. Lieutenant Edelstein, commander of the garrison, will be expecting you. Twelve speed your way.


Wymund: Why, if it isn't Sergeant Ferrinas! What brings you to my humble watchtower?
Wymund: ...Linkpearls may cease to function, you say? Rest assured, sir, we have an ample supply of torches and swift legs to spare. If there's a message that needs sending, it will be sent.


Hopeful Dawn: <gasp> 'Tis an honor to meet ye in the flesh, Sergeant! Is there aught I can do fer ye?
Hopeful Dawn: ...Provisions fer when the linkshell's out o' commission? I always make sure we've got a good store o' torches an' well-rested legs. The east watchtower's ready fer anythin', never ye fear!


Edelstein: Ah, Sergeant Ferrinas. Well met and welcome to my garrison.
Edelstein: Battle preparations are proceeding well, I am pleased to say. The Flame General himself arrived a short while ago, and has been inspecting our troops.


Lv. 49        Hearts on Fire
Edelstein: General Raubahn would no doubt be pleased to hear from you. You will find him over by the aetheryte.


Raubahn: Ever a sight for sore eyes, my friend.
Raubahn: I'm told you worked wonders on the morale of our garrison at Bluefog. I would have you do the same for the troops here.
Raubahn: They put on a brave face when I'm about, but the fire in their hearts quivers as a candle in the wind. Aye, I can see it in their bearing.
Raubahn: About the camp, there are green recruits whose resolve falters. Find them, Coral, and rekindle their fighting spirit the only way a hero can.
Raubahn: Once you have seen to the others, go and do the same for Edelstein. No matter what he may claim, the lieutenant would also be better for a bit of rousing. Trust me, I know.


Flame Private First Class: Ah, the oft-rumored hero... Doubtless you will single-handedly save us all...
Flame Private First Class: Your stirring gesticulation has reawakened me to my purpose! Hero or no, I will fight tooth and nail to protect the realm!
Flame Private Third Class: I-I'm fine, t-truly! N-Nothing to w-worry about! Just a m-mild case of b-battlefield nerves!
Flame Private Third Class: YAAAAAARGH!!! I BREAK MY FAST ON GARLEANS! AND RIGHT NOW, I'M VERY HUNGRY!
Flame Private Second Class: Yes, sir... Right away, sir... <sigh>
Flame Private Second Class: Uwaaaaaah! The Garleans are not near as frightening as you! I'd sooner face a vanguard while naked as my nameday!


Edelstein: You would stoke my fighting spirit as you did our recruits'? Hah hah! A kind offer, but hardly necessary. I assure you, the fire in my heart rages as strongly as it ever has.
Edelstein: By Rhalgr... Without my realizing it, the fire of my resolve had grown dim. But thanks to you, it burns red-hot once more! If needs be, I shall lay down my life to secure victory for Eorzea!








Lv. 49        Setting the Stage


Edelstein: A short while ago, the Flame General struck for Castrum Meridianum. Alas, no sooner did his contingent gain the resistance line than an imperial patrol fell upon them.
Edelstein: We are informed that they successfully won through, but enemy patrols yet linger in the area. Our main host could easily crush their like, to be sure, but we dare not deploy them at this juncture lest we prematurely stir the hornet's nest.
Edelstein: That the operation might proceed unhampered, I would have you thin out the imperial presence at Raubahn's Push. It should suffice if you were to vanquish three each of their vanguards and foot soldiers.
Edelstein: Once you have accomplished this, pray join the Flame General at the operation's staging point. May Rhalgr give you strength!


Raubahn: I see you've cleared the way for the main host. My thanks. I might've given the task to another rather than risk your neck before the mission, but what's done is done. Besides, it probably served to loosen up your joints.
Raubahn: This is it, Coral─the moment of reckoning. Eorzea's future hinges upon our deeds this day.




Lv. 50        Rock the Castrum
Raubahn: Brothers and sisters of the Alliance! I would share with you glad tidings!
Raubahn: Doubtless spurred on by news of the siege of Castrum Oriens, the Maelstrom has struck a double blow! Castrum Occidens and Castrum Marinum are now under blockade!
Raubahn: Phase two of Operation Archon is a success!
Raubahn: Reports tell us that the Garleans offered fierce resistance─but that the Admiral yielded them not one ilm.
Raubahn: With Occidens, Marinum and Oriens thus suppressed, the third phase may begin in earnest!
Raubahn: Even as we speak, the Order of the Twin Adder moves to block the railway leading hither from Castrum Centri. And that can mean but one thing...
Raubahn: The hour is come to strike at the heart of the Garlean invasion force!
Raubahn: ...Castrum Meridianum, the den of the Black Wolf!
Minfilia: My fellow Eorzeans. I am Minfilia, Mistress of the Scions of the Seventh Dawn.
Minfilia: There exist myriad barriers that divide us─those of race and nation, language and creed, to name but a few.
Minfilia: Such barriers serve to isolate us from our neighbors...yet they also serve to define who we are. Shorn of them, there would be little to distinguish one from another, and the rich variety of our lives would give way to sterile orthodoxy.
Minfilia: These barriers can never truly be broken down, of course─not so long as there is liberty in the world─but they can be transcended!
Minfilia: Verily, we do so now in coming together for this grand endeavor, to fight side-by-side in defense of our shared home!
Alphinaud: Before me stands the adventurer Coral Ferrinas. You all know him as the man who will lead the unit tasked with destroying the Ultima Weapon.
Alphinaud: We Scions know a different Coral, however. We know him as a dear friend who has endured untold hardship on our behalf─a true hero who has ever blazed a path for us to follow. And why do I tell you this? I tell you, friends, because it is time for us to blaze a path for him!
Raubahn: Our objective is to wreak such havoc outside the walls of Meridianum as to afford Coral and his comrades the time they need to disable the magitek field generator within.
Raubahn: With the path thus cleared, we may finally turn our minds to the true goal of this operation─the destruction of the Ultima Weapon! All troops, prepare for battle!
Cid: I fear I can't accompany you this time. The unenviable task of facilitating communications between our forces has been entrusted to the Ironworks, you see. Know, though, that I will be praying for your safe return.
Minfilia: See that you come back to us, my friend. May the Crystal bless you and keep you.
Raubahn: We will suffer the Black Wolf to prowl our lands no more! Let us teach the hunter what it is to be hunted!
Raubahn: Forward, comrades! For Eorzea!
All: FOR EORZEA!
Alphinaud: Go now, Coral, and bring us one step closer to the dawn!


Cid: If I didn't know better, I'd swear you had a personal grudge against magitek armor.
Cid: What can I say? I couldn't bear to let you have all the fun.
Cid: Don't worry─Biggs and Wedge have everything in hand. Truth be told, I think they like having the work of three men.
Cid: Wedge wasn't exactly pleased to be left behind, though, and made quite sure I knew it. I must say, our recent struggles have done wonders for the lad's spirit.
Cid: Given the size of this place, I suspected there might be an armor or three to be had. And here we are.
Cid: Hmmm...not as bad as I thought. If I have half Marques's talent for mending things, I should be able to get it working again.
Cid: Listen, Coral─we intercepted an imperial communication indicating that the Ultima Weapon is indeed being housed within the Praetorium.
Cid: We also learned that the field which protects the compound is powered by no fewer than three generator towers.
Cid: If you're to deactivate the field, you'll need to locate and disable them all.
Cid: And I'm here to help you do just that.
Cid: See that chute? It leads to waste disposal.
Cid: Somewhere nearby, there will be a ceruleum facility supplying fuel to the closest of the three towers.
Cid: Find the place and break things.
Cid: Go on ahead, Coral. I'll be along as soon as I finish my repairs.


Cid: There you are!
Cid: I didn't have the patience to take the long way round.
Cid: I see you've disabled the first generator. That leaves us with two.
Cid: Ah, bugger. That was me, wasn't it?
Cid: Well, there's nothing for it but to press on. We must see to the remaining generators before the enemy has the chance to regroup!
Cid: You go on ahead, Coral! I'll bring up the rear!
Cid: Let's raise some hell!


[Engagement]
Cid: Stand back! I'm going to blast open the bulkhead!
Cid: This might take a while! Watch my back!
Cid: I'm almost there! Keep that thing occupied!
Magitek Colossus Rubricatus: Damn it, that colossus is enhanced! Hold on─I'll try to think of something!


[End Engagement]
Cid: Fine work, Coral!
Cid: Stand clear. I have a mind to loose some fireworks.
Cid: Diverting all power to cannons!
Cid: Damn it. There goes the core. I fear I may have overestimated its maximum operating capacity...by a few orders of magnitude. I blame Marques.
Cid: Ahem. We'll need to find another way to bring down the third generator.
Livia Sas Junius: Well, well...the traitor himself. And with his meddlesome friend for company.
Cid: You go on ahead, Coral. I need to get to the bottom of something.


Cid: It's me! Are you all right!?
Cid: That's an assault craft you're up against! You don't stand a chance with conventional weapons!
Cid: You're going to need something big to bring it down. A mortar, a cannon─anything!
Cid: Hold on, Coral! I'm on my way!


Livia Sas Junius: Fools! If you are resolved to die here, you might at least have done so without first making a mess of the place!
Livia Sas Junius: I see that Garlond is not with you. More's the pity, I had hoped to slay him myself. But never mind the traitor for now.
Livia Sas Junius: I have so looked forward to this meeting...Coral Ferrinas.
Livia Sas Junius: Yes, I know much and more about you. About your strength...and your hidden talents.
Livia Sas Junius: I would sample them firsthand─and you will indulge me.


[Battle]
Livia Sas Junius: Come, hero, show me what you can do. Show me...everything!
Livia Sas Junius: I see...


[End Battle]
Livia Sas Junius: My lord was quite taken with you and the power you possess─the “Echo.” Naturally, I could not help but wonder whom this prince among men might be...
Livia Sas Junius: Only to discover that you are but another adventurer. No better than the multitude.
Livia Sas Junius: Yet in spite of this, the masses hold you their champion, and shower honors upon your head. It defies all reason.
Livia Sas Junius: How is it that you could be such a thorn in our side? Wherever you appear, you leave havoc in your wake. You even slew Rhitahtyn, one of our very finest.
Livia Sas Junius: Well...I will not speculate. Truth be told, I couldn't care less how you have done these things. What matters to me is the fact that you have done them.
Livia Sas Junius: If you are allowed to continue, you will eventually deprive me of all that I have toiled for─all that is mine by right!
Livia Sas Junius: My minions, my comrades...even my lord Gaius!
Livia Sas Junius: Well, you cannot have him!
Livia Sas Junius: His dreams and ambitions, his body and soul─they are mine, do you hear me!? All mine!
Livia Sas Junius: I lost everything once before! I will not suffer it to happen again!
Livia Sas Junius: I will kill you, adventurer! Only your death can bring me peace!


[Battle]
Livia Sas Junius: You will not take any more from me!
Livia Sas Junius: You lot! Make yourselves useful!
Livia Sas Junius: The pain I have suffered, I shall visit upon you a hundredfold!
Livia Sas Junius: You have made me wroth!
Livia Sas Junius: Noooooo! I will not lose...to the likes of you!


[Battle End]
Livia Sas Junius: No... <sob> It's happening...all over again...
Livia Sas Junius: Please... I cannot bear it... <sob> Don't take him...away from me...
Livia Sas Junius: My lord Gaius!!!


Cid: Another poor fool who craved Gaius's affection over all else... May her soul know rest.
Cid: 'Tis a miracle no harm has come to you, my friend. One for which I will happily give thanks.
Cid: ...And the wonders do not end there. Truthfully now─did you really mean to send that assault craft crashing into the generator tower? If you did─you're a bloody liar. If you didn't─well...you're too modest!
Cid: Whichever you are, you've managed to open the way to the Praetorium. The only problem is, we can't reach it on foot.
Cid: Nay, we'll need to take the Enterprise. I left her at the Ceruleum Processing Plant, so let's regroup there.
Cid: This is it, Coral! The final confrontation awaits!


Raubahn: I knew you wouldn't let us down, soldier!
Raubahn: With the Praetorium stripped of its defenses, the way to the Ultima Weapon lies open.
Raubahn: The time is come for the final phase of Operation Archon!






Lv. 50        The Ultimate Weapon
Raubahn: For the final phase of the operation, my Flames will storm Castrum Meridianum and suppress what is left of the imperial garrison. If all goes well, this will allow you to reach the Praetorium unopposed─fit and ready for your encounter with the Ultima Weapon.
Raubahn: Yours is the most dangerous mission of all, but the best must bear the heaviest burden, and you're the best we have. There's not another soul in this realm that could see this deed done, and Merlwyb and Kan-E are of the same mind as me.
Raubahn: Though all hangs on your success, you must not let our plight make you desperate. Victory belongs to the bold, not the reckless. Bards are wont to sing of heroes who valued their life at naught next to honor, love and liberty, but I tell you now: that which men value at naught, they sell cheap. Risk no more than you must, you hear me?
Raubahn: Now, best you were off─we have work to do, the both of us. See that your preparations are in order, then report to Cid. He awaits you with the Enterprise at the Ceruleum Processing Plant. May Rhalgr grant you strength.


[NPC Interaction]
Raubahn: Operation Archon is the most ambitious military strategy ever to be conducted on Eorzean soil, and you are its beating heart! You must not fail!


Cid: The Enterprise is at your disposal. When you're ready to head for 
orium, you need only say the word.
Cid: If we succeed in destroying the Ultima Weapon, it will deal a crippling blow to the Empire's hopes of conquest. After that, the XIVth Legion would not dare to move against us─barring the discovery of further Allagan doomsday devices, that is...
Cid: Let's be on our way, Coral! Gaius and his plaything await!




Cid: So here we are...
Cid: The Ultima Weapon will almost certainly be housed in the depths of the complex.
Cid: This is it, my friend!




Cid: Gaius!
Gaius Van Baelsar: Ah, Cid, my boy... You are late.
Gaius Van Baelsar: There is something I always meant to tell you, yet the time never seemed right. It concerns your father.
Cid: ...What of him?
Gaius Van Baelsar: In the winter of his years, Midas came to abhor his part in Meteor. He told me that he wanted nothing more than to wash his hands of the whole sordid business.
Cid: But he did not wash his hands of it. He helmed the project until the day it killed him!
Gaius Van Baelsar: Come now, Cid...you must know that he did not have the luxury of choice. By the time he realized his error, it was too late. Meteor had him completely in its thrall.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Shortly before his...transformation, mayhap sensing that something was amiss, your father confided to me all the regrets of his life. Most of them concerned you.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Early on in your career, he realized that while you had a talent for devising armaments, it would never fulfill you. Long before you knew your own mind, he saw that you would be far happier using your knowledge for peaceful purposes, and the thought touched him. He was a changed man for it, though he could not let it show.
Cid: You blew holes in this place just so you could say this to me!? What is it you want, Gaius!?
Gaius Van Baelsar: I want you at my side, Cid. Take up your father's mantle, and become the Empire's lead engineer. It is your destiny.
Cid: My father had a change of heart─you said so yourself! Besides, I have long known my destiny, and I assure you, it lies not with the Empire!
Gaius Van Baelsar: A pity.
And what of you, adventurer? Will you not consider making common cause with me?
Gaius Van Baelsar: With your powers joined to mine, we might do much for this realm. Together, we could bring order to Eorzea, and usher in a lasting peace.
Gaius Van Baelsar: No? And I can expect no better answer than this? So be it. It was your strength that made me proffer my hand in friendship, and it is your strength that makes me proffer now my blade. Save as an ally, you are too dangerous to be let to remain.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Run, Cid. Or stay. It makes no matter. You cannot escape the past.
Cid: Gaius, wait! ...Damn it!




Cid: Knowing Gaius, he is headed for the Ultima Weapon. If we find him, so too will we find our quarry.
Cid: With these instruments, we can monitor every nook and cranny in the castrum.
Cid: I think it's time we divided our forces. Pray go on and give chase. I'll track your movements from here and guide you through the complex.
Cid: We'll stay in contact via linkpearl. Be careful, all right?
Cid: Where in the hells are you, Gaius... 






Cid: You'll need proper firepower to blast through that. Try and find another path to the armor bay.
The training area walls slide open. You have been spotted!
(Marauder Yunie) sorry got dc'd
(Asterius Hyperion) wb
The magitek death claw drops an imperial identification key.
(Marauder Yunie) my hero =)
Asterius Hyperion obtains 2 vials of x-ether.
You obtain an imperial identification key.
(Asterius Hyperion) ;o lol
Cid: Well, well, would you look at this! I've found just the unit for you, Coral!
(Lashre Aryn) lol
Wall lock deactivated.
Cid: I'll send the identification data to the terminal. You can use that to activate her.
Cid: There ought to be an identification key reader nearby. You need to complete pilot registration before you can activate an armor.


















Cid: Ah, there she is!
Cid: I trust you recognize our old friend. “Maggie,” was it? They must have shipped her here from Centri.
Cid: Considering all she's been through, it's a wonder she's still operational. Tough old girl!
Cid: Now that you're suitably armed, you can blast open that bulkhead. The external walkway will take you back there.
Cid: Follow it till you come upon a way down to the lower level.
Cid: That bulkhead composed of a special alloy. Extremely tough. Ordinary fire won't leave a mark, I'm afraid.is co
Cid: You'll need to divert all power to the magitek cannon, as I did so memorably once before.
Cid: As you may recall, the armor's core is like to expire from the strain, but there's no help for it if we want to press on.
Cid: Now, listen well. Press... <buzzzzzz> ...the control... <fizzzzzz> ...engage ancillary...then fire away. Don't mind the warning lights.
Cid: You're a natural at this! All right, the way's clear, but it's just you and your own two feet now, so be careful.
Nero Tol Scaeva: You have been leaving a fine mess in your wake, adventurer.
Cid: Is someone there!?
Nero Tol Scaeva: Garlond, old friend. How it warms the heart to hear your voice again after all these years.
Cid: ...Nero? Is that you!?
Nero Tol Scaeva: You sound well. It would seem this savage land agrees with you.
Cid: The highest ranking tribunus of the XIVth... It was you all this time?
Nero Tol Scaeva: Tell me, Garlond. How long do you intend to keep all the glory for yourself?
Cid: Uh...what? You've lost me.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Don't play the fool with me. Ever since the Academy, I have been condemned to live in your shadow.
Nero Tol Scaeva: By all objective measure, I was the more talented of the two of us, yet that fact counted for naught beside your privileged birth. You were admired as the young prodigy si
mply because your father was the great Midas nan Garlond!
Nero Tol Scaeva: When you defected, I felt sure my star would finally rise...
Nero Tol Scaeva: But by disappearing, you acquired the status of a legend─your reputed genius gaining credence merely by dint of your absence! Instead of cursing you for a traitor, the people actually came to think of you more fondly! To this day, you are still the young prodigy of magitek!
Nero Tol Scaeva: I, meanwhile, have ever been made to feel second-rate─I who have continued to serve our nation faithfully. Whenever I fail to excel─why, it is only to be expected! Yet when I exceed all reasonable expectations, people proclaim that I am walking in the footsteps of the great Cid nan bloody Garlond!
Cid: Nero, I... I don't know what to say.
Nero Tol Scaeva: It matters not a whit what I achieve. Your existence has rendered mine worthless. Even Lord van Baelsar saw fit to offer you a place at his side─and this in spite of your betrayal! Did he extend any such offer to me─the man who had remained loyal to him for all these years? Why, no. He did not.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Long have I endured this injustice...but no more.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Lord van Baelsar is in the midst of activating the fully powered Ultima Weapon.
Nero Tol Scaeva: It is my magnum opus─the creation that will win me the recognition I am due. I will not let anyone interfere.
Cid: Nero! What are you─!?


Nero Tol Scaeva: Ever since I first set foot in this benighted land, I have watched you─every move you have made, every step you have taken.
Nero Tol Scaeva: You have felled eikons, a feat made possible by the Echo, a peculiar power which shields you from their corrupting influence.
Nero Tol Scaeva: It is of little wonder that my lord has taken an interest in you.
Nero Tol Scaeva: As have I, if truth be told. It is my desire to harness your power for use in the Ultima Weapon.
Nero Tol Scaeva: Should I succeed, Lord van Baelsar will surely take notice! Beside this, Garlond's achievements will be as child's play!
Nero Tol Scaeva: Come, adventurer, and yield to me the secrets of your power!
Nero Tol Scaeva: This changes...nothing...
Nero Tol Scaeva: Ahahahaha! The Ultima Weapon is activated, and it brims with the power of eikons! Nothing can withstand its might!


Cid: Are you all right!?
Cid: What of Nero!? ...Fled!? Damn it!
Cid: In the instant prior to the blackout, the instruments detected a massive power surge from the deepest chamber.
Cid: Gaius is certain to be there! We have no time to waste!
Cid: Word arrived from the Alliance a short while ago. It seems the Order of the Twin Adder has completed its blockade of Castrum Centri.
Cid: What hands they can spare are hastening this way even as we speak, and likewise for the Maelstrom. All that's left is to destroy the Ultima Weapon!
Cid: ...I should warn you: the chamber which houses the target appears to be saturated with aetheric energies. There's bound to be heavy interference.
Cid: But even if we lose contact, you must go on. Just don't do anything I wouldn't do, all right?
Cid: Look for the lift's control panel─it'll be somewhere nearby.
Cid: Take the lift down, and you should find yourself in the chamber of the Ultima Weapon.
Cid: Keep your eyes peeled─Gaius could be waiting for you down there.
Cid: Oh, and don't even think about dying. You're too bloody useful!
Cid: The interference is getting worse. I don't think the connection will last much─


Gaius Van Baelsar: Tell me...for whom do you fight?




[For Eorzea]
Gaius Van Baelsar: Hmph! How very glib. And do you believe in Eorzea?
Gaius Van Baelsar: Eorzea's unity is forged of falsehoods. Its city-states are built on deceit. And its faith is an instrument of deception.
Gaius Van Baelsar: It is naught but a cobweb of lies. To believe in Eorzea is to believe in nothing.
Gaius Van Baelsar: In Eorzea, the beast tribes often summon gods to fight in their stead─though your comrades only rarely 
respond in kind. Which is strange, is it not?
Gaius Van Baelsar: Are the “Twelve” otherwise engaged? I was given to understand they were your protectors. If you truly believe them your guardians, why do you not repeat the trick that served you so well at Carteneau, and call them down?
Gaius Van Baelsar: They will answer─so long as you lavish them with crystals and gorge them on aether.
Gaius Van Baelsar:. Accept but this, and you will see how Eorzea's faith is bleeding the land dry.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Nor is this unknown to your masters. Which prompts the question: why do they cling to these false deities? What drives even men of learning─even the great Louisoix─to grovel at their feet?
Gaius Van Baelsar: The answer? Your masters lack the strength to do otherwise!
Gaius Van Baelsar: For the world of man to mean anything, man must own the world.
Gaius Van Baelsar: To this end, he hath fought ever to raise himself through conflict─to grow rich through conquest.
Gaius Van Baelsar: And when the dust of battle settles, it is ever the strong who dictate the fate of the weak.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Knowing this, but a single path is open to the impotent ruler─that of false worship. A path which leads to enervation and death.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Only a man of power can rightly steer the course of civilization. And in this land of creeping mendacity, that one truth will prove its salvation.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Come, champion of Eorzea, face me! Your defeat shall serve as proof of my readiness to rule!
Gaius Van Baelsar: It is only right that I should take your realm. For none among you has the power to stop me!
Gaius Van Baelsar: I had not thought to be so hard-pressed.
Gaius Van Baelsar: Your strength is...most impressive. Such power befits a ruler!
Gaius Van Baelsar: Yet you lack the resolve to put it to proper use. A waste.


Gaius van Baelsar: Allow me, then, hero, to do that which you will not!
Gaius van Baelsar: Bear witness to the true power of the Ultima Weapon!
Gaius van Baelsar: But the Ultima Weapon is all-powerful! Why does my enemy still stand!?
Gaius van Baelsar: Can her strength truly be so great?
Lahabrea: It is the blessing of Light that confounds you.
Gaius van Baelsar: Lahabrea.
Lahabrea: Your foe acts under the protection of the Crystal she bears.
Gaius van Baelsar: So, this is what empowers her.
Lahabrea: Beyond mortal limits.
Lahabrea: If you are to prevail, the hammer of Darkness must needs be brought to bear upon the shield of Light.
Lahabrea: And so it shall, for the Ultima Weapon is host to a power of which you are as yet ignorant.
Gaius van Baelsar: Speak plainly, Ascian.
Lahabrea: The Heart of Sabik. It is the Weapon's core─an enigma whose surface even the vaunted scholars of ancient Allag failed to scratch.
Lahabrea: The magic within has lain dormant for eons.        
Gaius van Baelsar: Of what magic do you speak?
Lahabrea: A spell without parallel. Ultima.
Lahabrea: I sought the life force of the primals for no other reason but to quicken the core. For the true power of the Ultima Weapon lies within its now-beating Heart!
Lahabrea: Oh, Hydaelyn...it seems the task of keeping Your champion alive has exhausted what strength You had left.
Lahabrea: Van Baelsar... Your enemy's shield is broken.
Lahabrea: The rest I leave to you.
Gaius van Baelsar: We will speak later, Ascian.
Gaius van Baelsar: But first, I must deal with you. The question of who is mightier remains!
Gaius van Baelsar: Come, adventurer! Let us find the answer together!


Gaius van Baelsar: No... No, no, NO! Uh!
Gaius van Baelsar: Heed me... The subjects of a weak ruler must needs look to a higher power for providence...and their dependence comes at a cost to the realm.
Gaius van Baelsar: The misguided elevate the frail... And the frail lead the people astray.
Gaius van Baelsar: Unless a man of power wrests control...the cycle will never be broken.
Gaius van Baelsar: You... You of all people must see the truth in this. You who have the strength to rule...
Lahabrea: Pathetic.
Lahabrea: You boasted of unrivaled power. You were entrusted with the ultimate weapon. The ultimate magic!
Lahabrea: And still you failed. So much for the glory of man.
Lahabrea: The growing imbalance afflicting the planet must be redressed.
Lahabrea: If it is permitted to worsen, the very laws of existence─both aetheric and physical─will be warped beyond all recognition.
Lahabrea: Know you the root of this corruption? Hydaelyn!
Lahabrea: Like a parasite, She must be burned out if the planet is to recover.
Lahabrea: And naught but the return of the one true god will ensure Her complete excision.
Lahabrea: Yet to pave the way for the master's return, a chaotic confluence of untold proportions must needs be brought about. And that will necessitate the presence of the primals.
Lahabrea: Needless to say, both you and your Scion accomplices can not be suffered to interfere in this endeavor.
Lahabrea: You will not leave this place alive.
Lahabrea: It is past time your flame was extinguished...“Bringer of Light.”








Gaius Van Baelsar: And so my conquest ends, Cid.
Gaius Van Baelsar: In smoke and ashes...


















Kan-E-Senna: Warrior of Light.
Cid: Looks! Our hero returns!














wwwwwwwwwwwww












Did you hear that?
Where is it coming from?


Pashtarot: Bahamut stirs.
Igeyorhm: As will the others ere long.
Nabriales: 'Tis not a question of whether Eorzea's champion shall yield, but of when.
Lahabrea: And with each passing moment we draw closer to the Reckoning.
Ascians: To the one true god!
Ascians: To Zodiark!




[Back in the Walking Sands]
[NPC Interaction]
Arenvald: One day I hope to become a hero to the people like you. A hero like A'aba and Aulie were to me.
Wedge: You're an inspiration to us all, Coral. An honest-to-gods hero that never gives up! Never gives in!
Wedge: (And neither will I. I'll win Tataru's heart! See if I don't!)
Biggs: Watching you live the life of a free adventurer has helped me realize that I can't keep putting off my dreams forever.
Biggs: I've been talking with Wedge about opening a workshop, independent of Garlond Ironworks. Maybe in Vylbrand, I don't know... 
Biggs: Working with the chief is great and all, but someday I want to build my own Enterprise, you know?
Cid: I think we could all do with a good rest, don't you? I know I could.
Cid: I still haven't had time to think about everything that happened. About Nero...and Gaius... 
Iliud: We held a vigil at the church until word came of your success. I cannot express to you how relieved I am by your safe return, Coral.
Bremondt: Heh, you've come a long way since I first met you on that carriage to Gridania. Guess this means we're square, eh?
Brennan: Hah! You sure gave those imperials what for! I knew you were somethin' special, Coral!
Brendt: I reckon a lot more folk'll take up adventurin' after hearin' about what you've done. Brave men and women all hopin' to become the next Coral Ferrinas. 
Dariustel: By the gods, to think that this ragtag band of idealists could lay the XIVth low. 'Tis a tale straight from a story book.
Dariustel: I imagine my former associates would find it most appealing. After all, what young ruffian hasn't at one point fancied himself a hero in the making?
Dariustel: Aye, I think I may bring more than a few recruits back with me from the Twelveswood.


Yda: Heehee! We all decided to give you a special surprise welcome, just like the ones in heroic epics!
Yda: Your story took many twists and turns, but you managed to get to the happy ending! Let's hope for more happy endings to come!
Papalymo: So a new era has begun... On such a momentous occasion, I find it good for the soul to tie up loose ends.
Papalymo: Hm? What would I suggest you do? Why, the same thing you always do after accomplishing a task: report to Minfilia. It ends where it begins, my friend.
Thancred: I realize I have been the cause of tremendous consternation, and for that I deeply apologize.
Thancred: Ah, but you haven't time to waste chatting with me. Minfilia is expecting you.
Y'shtola: Welcome back, Warrior of Light. We, all of us, prayed for your safe return.
Y'shtola: The Seventh Astral Era has dawned, setting in motion a myriad of new beginnings. I suspect our paths will diverge for a time... Have you said your farewells to the Scions?
Urianger: The land my master sheltered from oblivion hath been delivered unto a new beginning by the hands of the Warriors of Light. Thus doth history mark the passing of an era.
Urianger: The dawn doth brighten the sky, and shineth o'er this nascent age of hope. And though the clouds gather to mute the sun's rising glory, I would walk far with thee under its gentle glow.
Alphinaud: “Where men go as one, there is life. And where there is life, there is cause to hope.”
Alphinaud: The light of hope shines brilliantly within you, Coral. I only wish my grandfather was here to see it.


Minfilia: The Archons have conducted a preliminary investigation into the origin of the roar that rang out during the celebration. Their findings strongly suggest that a new primal has appeared.
Minfilia: The roar generated a distinctive wave-pattern in the aether, a pattern observed only once before in history─five years ago, to be precise. I should like to think it mere coincidence, yet we cannot discount that possibility... Well, I trust I need say no more.
Minfilia: At great sacrifice, we have delivered Eorzea from the threat posed by the Empire and the primals, and thereby secured peace. We cannot well allow the realm to be plunged into chaos once more.
Minfilia: You have given your all for our cause, risking life and limb on I know not how many occasions, yet our struggle continues, and we need you now no less than before.
Minfilia: Please continue to stand with us, and together we shall safeguard the future of the realm─of this very star!




Lv. 50        A Recurring Problem
Minfilia: I know you have scarce had a chance to rest, but I am afraid there is still work to do.
Y'shtola: The Ultima Weapon's destruction, 'twould seem, has served to embolden the beastmen, who now seek to call down their gods once more.
Papalymo: Even as we speak, the Amalj'aa, the Ixal, and the kobolds are making preparations for their respective summoning rites. And that is but the half of it.
Papalymo: Much to our dismay, all three tribes were somehow able to procure vast quantities of crystals.
Yda: ...Oh! My turn to say something? Ahem! Basically, this means the primals will be stronger than they were before!
Minfilia: Far, far stronger. Their previous incarnations will seem as pale imitations.
Thancred: The beast tribes, we believe, began hoarding crystals with a vengeance in the wake of the Ultima Weapon's maiden appearance. You will remember that as the time it devoured three primals in one sitting.
Minfilia: The Grand Companies are aware of the potential primal outbreak.
Minfilia: Alas, due to the losses they incurred to ensure the success of Operation Archon, they are ill equipped to take any meaningful measures.
Urianger: After deliberation, the leaders concluded that they must needs turn to us once more─to thee.
Minfilia: The aetheric waves that were observed in Mor Dhona do not appear to bear a connection to any beast tribe.
Minfilia: Yet much and more still remain beyond our knowing. We must be prepared for all possibilities.
Minfilia: I am loath to send you into the midst of danger again so soon, but none have proven themselves more capable against the primals than you. Will you undertake this mission, Coral?
Minfilia: You have my thanks! I truly do not know what we would do without you!
Minfilia: Go ahead, Thancred.
Thancred: Ahem.
Thancred: With circumstances as they were, I haven't had the chance to properly express my gratitude.
Thancred: I owe you my life, Coral. Thank you, from the bottom of my heart.
Thancred: A string of failures had left me feeling powerless. I wanted to be stronger, that I might do right by my fellow Scions.
Thancred: But instead I caused you all no end of grief and suffering. I swear to you, it shan't happen again.
Thancred: Owing to everyone's ministrations, I am quite recovered now. I hope to return to my duties again soon.
Minfilia: Thancred's return marks the beginning of a new chapter for the Scions. Let us renew the fire in our hearts and continue to press ever forward!
Minfilia: Now then, back to the matter of the primals. With no less than three of the beings threatening to appear, it is easy to feel overwhelmed. We must take it one sure step at a time.
Minfilia: Urianger has the overview of the situation as it stands. Please speak with him to receive guidance on your mission.


[NPC Interaction]
Minfilia: Have you been keeping well, Coral? We may have earned ourselves a respite, but there is still much and more to do. Together, let us continue to shine the Crystal's light upon Eorzea!
Y'shtola: In bringing the struggle against the Empire to a decisive end, the nations of Eorzea spent much of their military strength.
Y'shtola: I fear the beast tribes have caught scent of this temporary weakness, and will give us scant leave to rest. A hero's work is never done, Coral.
Thancred: Believe me, I am quite eager to resume active duties and redeem my good name. But I have not forgotten that similar sentiments nearly led me to my doom once before. 
Thancred: I will not question the wisdom of our Baldesion colleagues. They have bid me rest, and so I shall.
Yda: So much has happened in this place... If the walls could talk, such tales they would be able to tell!
Papalymo: Just when we dared to believe that peace had arrived, another primal awakens. I say, has there ever been rest for the weary?


Urianger: Such knowledge as I possess of the beast tribes and their primals are at thy disposal.
Urianger: Whether man or beastman, we are wont to seek power when plunged into the black depths of despair.
Urianger: That despair doth begin with the Amalj'aa, who may have already summoned forth Ifrit.
Urianger: With our comrade Thancred now returned, thou wouldst do well to seek his counsel.
Tataru: The Garlean threat may have abated, but there is no end to the work we Scions do.
Tataru: In our own unique ways, may every one of us continue striving to make a better Eorzea!






Lv. 50        Ifrit Bleeds, We Can Kill It
Thancred: Confirmation has just arrived from the Immortal Flames.
Thancred: 'Tis as Urianger said, I fear─the Amalj'aa have already summoned Ifrit. A confrontation with the Lord of the Inferno is inevitable.
Thancred: I would like nothing more than to lend you my blade, but the Students of Baldesion insisted that I refrain from taking to the field where it concerns primals.
Thancred: I know not the workings of it, but it would seem that recent events have left me especially susceptible to tempering.
Thancred: As much as I hate missing out on the fun, for everybody's sake, I must sit this one out. Instead I will focus on gathering and analyzing data.
Thancred: Now, the Immortal Flames have already conducted a preliminary investigation into Ifrit.
Thancred: They may well have information that will be of use to you. Do pay a visit to the Hall of Flames and speak with Commander Swift.
Thancred: One last thing before you depart. Doubtless you remember Minfilia's words, but this Ifrit is a far cry from the primal you first defeated. You will want to assemble your most dependable comrades for the mission. Be safe, my friend.


Swift: Coral, we thank you for coming. The Flame General will be heartened to hear that you have answered the call.
Swift: As we have already relayed to the Waking Sands, Ifrit is returned.
Swift: For the sake of peace in the region, we humbly request that you vanquish him.
Swift: The primal is to be found in his domain, the Bowl of Embers. To get there, you must use the beastman aetheryte found within the depths of Zahar'ak, the Amalj'aa stronghold.
Swift: The Amalj'aa have constructed their own Aethernet from salvaged aetheryte shards. This being the case, you should be able to use it without problem.
Swift: No doubt you already know this from your fellow Scions, but the present incarnation of Ifrit is far stronger than the last. Facing him with any less than seven of your stoutest comrades would be ill advised.
Swift: That is all the intelligence we have to share─the rest is in your hands. I shall pray for your victory and safe return.




Lv. 50        In For Garuda Awakening
Papalymo: Ah, Coral, I hear you have triumphed over Ifrit! Of course, this is no less a feat than I would expect of a Warrior of Light, but well done all the same!
Papalymo: Now, I full had a mind to crack open a bottle of 1547 Bacchus, but the celebration must keep. Garuda, I am afraid to say, has also returned.
Papalymo: As you well know, Garuda's appetite for destruction far exceeds that of other primals. Not to dishearten you, but in her lastest incarnation, that appetite has become nigh insatiable.
Papalymo: In the short time since her return, she has already wreaked tremendous havoc. You must send her back to the aether before she can do any more damage.
Papalymo: In the meantime, Yda and I will assist the Order of the Twin Adder in their recovery effort.
Papalymo: When you previously faced Garuda, 'twas the Enterprise that bore you through the storm that shielded her domain. Well, that storm is as a spring breeze beside what she has raised this time; no airship could hope to penetrate it.
Papalymo: And so we must count ourselves fortunate that the Order of the Twin Adder chanced to discover a beastman aetheryte leading to the Howling Eye.
Papalymo: Before you do aught else, I suggest you pay a visit to the Adders' Nest and have words with Commander Heuloix. He will be able to tell you about the said aetheryte, among other things.
Papalymo: Make no mistake, the Lady of the Vortex will prove a formidable opponent, but I believe that you can weather the storm. May the Twelve keep you safe!


Vorsaile Heuloix: Ah, Sergeant Ferrinas! We are grateful for your aid!
Vorsaile Heuloix: As you will already know, the accursed Ixal have summoned Garuda once more. Since her return, she has wasted no time unleashing her fury upon the region. Extensive damage has been reported in both the Twelveswood and Coerthas.
Vorsaile Heuloix: She must be stopped, and soon, lest more lives be lost. In the name of the Elder Seedseer, I humbly request you put an end to her reign of terror. 
Vorsaile Heuloix: As in the past, Garuda keeps her court within the Howling Eye, which is perpetually protected by a raging tempest. Fortunately, we have learned of an alternate way into her domain.
Vorsaile Heuloix: The Ixal have constructed an aetheryte within Natalan, their stronghold in the central highlands of Coerthas. This aetheryte will take you to Garuda's tempestuous realm.
Vorsaile Heuloix: We owe this discovery to the Ishgardians, whom the Elder Seedseer says desired to repay the kindness you showed them. For the sake of our people as well as theirs, may your mission be met with success.


Lv. 50 In a Titan Spot
Y'shtola: So both Ifrit and Garuda are now vanquished by your hands. Truly, you have earned yourself a rest. Would that you had the luxury of time to enjoy it.
Y'shtola: It pains me to say that Titan is also returned, and with a vengeance. As was the case with his primal brethren, he is grown stronger than he was before.
Y'shtola: When I went about my investigation, all indications suggested that the kobolds were nowhere near ready to resume their summoning rites.
Y'shtola: But it turns out they were deceiving us. I should have known better.
Y'shtola: The kobolds' subterranean domain runs deep, and they can easily hoard crystals with our being none the wiser. And a vast hoard it must have been.
Y'shtola: Till now, Garuda was the most powerful among the three recently active primals. But according to our latest readings, Titan has usurped that honor.
Y'shtola: A primal's might is determined by two factors: the amount of crystals it has gorged upon, and the fervor of its believers. I would like nothing more than to measure precisely how strong the Lord of Crags has become, but I fear the time for such prudence has run out.
Y'shtola: We have already received an official request for assistance from the Maelstrom. And as you might expect, it is addressed to you.
Y'shtola: For your previous encounter with Titan, you traveled to his demesne by way of the aetheryte first discovered by the Company of Heroes. Sad to say, this aetheryte no longer seems to respond.
Y'shtola: But do not despair, for the Maelstrom has reportedly found another in its place. You will want to speak with Commander Rhiki at Maelstrom Command for the details.
Y'shtola: I cannot stress this enough, but Titan has grown fearsome strong. See to it you spare no preparation.


R'ashaht Rhiki: Ah, Coral of the Scions, your presence is most welcome. I'm chagrined that we must turn to you again to lay Titan low.
R'ashaht Rhiki: No doubt this is yesterday's news to you, but the Lord of Crags has returned more ferocious and formidable than he was before.
R'ashaht Rhiki: We cannot fathom how the kobolds were able to obtain such vast stores of crystals, and in so short a time. We will learn the answer in the coming moons, I suspect, but first things first.
R'ashaht Rhiki: We need you to vanquish Titan before he and the kobolds have a chance to wreak havoc on Limsa Lominsa. You have felled the primal before, and we believe that you can emerge victorious once more.
R'ashaht Rhiki: We've learned of a new aetheryte that will take you to the Navel. It's situated deep within U'Ghamaro Mines─not the most convenient of locations, admittedly─so you will have cut yourself a path.
R'ashaht Rhiki: Please make all haste─Titan's mere presence emboldens the kobolds, and 'tis only a matter of time before they move in force against us. May the Navigator guide you on your way, Coral.






Lv. 50 Primal Awakening


Urianger: When the scenery moon did wane, there sounded a blood-curdling roar. A new primal had roused, the portents gave us to believe, one whose identity yet lieth beyond our ken.
Urianger: By thy hand, three primals have since been vanquished. As each returned to the aether, 'twas observed that tremors foreshadowing this fourth grew in strength and frequency both.
Urianger: The being doth quicken, and in time it shall become a scourge upon the land.
Urianger: Yet even as we pondered a course of action, a benevolent soul did arise, one who would forestall this threat. Though she be tender in years, she is true of heart and steadfast of resolve.
Urianger: She would solicit thine aid, if thou art willing to proffer it. Lest thou wonder, this maiden is of our order. Thus did the Antecedent straightways consent that thou shouldst assist her howsoever thou mayest.
Urianger: As soon as thou art able, hie thee to Wineport, where thy petitioner doth await thee even now. Thou shalt for a certainty find her visage strikingly familiar.


Alisaie: It has been a while, adventurer. As I recall, my brother Alphinaud took the liberty of introducing us when first─and last─we met.
Alisaie: But for the sake of propriety...Alisaie Leveilleur. I thank you for coming.
Alisaie: I have heard much and more of your exploits. By your hand, the Black Wolf is slain, and his Ultima Weapon destroyed.
Alisaie: You are possessed of great strength and courage, that much is plain. I shall have a need of one such as you if I am to see my mission through to its conclusion.
Alisaie: As you may be aware, the violence of Dalamud's fall changed not only the face of the realm, but also the base of the realm. Specifically, it played havoc with the aetheric currents, creating vast confluences of aether below the surface. Among other phenomena, this led to the formation of subterranean caverns at key points of stress.
Alisaie: One such cavern lies beneath Castrum Occidens, and extends to only the gods know where.
Alisaie: Despite appearances, Castrum Occidens is as much a research facility as it is a fortress. Gaius van Baelsar chose the site for no other reason than to probe the caverns without interference.
Alisaie: As you went about vanquishing the returned primals, I observed a repeating wave pattern in the aether, corresponding exactly to the dates on which you were reported to have felled Ifrit, Titan and Garuda. Upon closer examination, it became clear that these unique waveforms emanated from deep beneath the aforementioned stronghold.
Alisaie: Crucially, I recorded the same pattern during the recent celebrations, and have since been given to understand that this phenomenon bears a disquieting similarity to one observed shortly prior to the Calamity.
Alisaie: Five years ago, my grandfather invoked the power of the Twelve that he might contain Bahamut.
Alisaie: Alas, his efforts failed, and he vanished, together with his foe.
Alisaie: I would know the truth of what transpired that day─of Grandfather's fate, and of the metamorphosis that swept across the land.
Alisaie: In casting light upon these mysteries, we will find a way to cure what ails this world.
Alisaie: It is my belief that the answers I seek lie hid within the depths of the cavern. I would have you accompany me on an expedition to find them, Coral.
Alisaie: If truth be told, I am not wont to rely upon others, and have thus far handled matters alone. Yet I am not blind to my limitations. Unescorted, I cannot hope to succeed in this endeavor.
Alisaie: I swore that I would find a way to restore peace to Eorzea. If you desire the selfsame, then aid me, as you aided my brother and the Scions.
Alisaie: I am in your debt. You are a man of action, and I sense that we will accomplish much together.
Alisaie: But let us not waste any more time. As I mentioned, Castrum Occidens straddles the cavern I wish to explore. If I am to have a hope of reaching it alive, I will need you to infiltrate the stronghold first and locate a path into the depths.
Alisaie: Once you have done so, pray report your success to Storm Private J'brohka. You may consider her my assistant here in Wineport.
Alisaie: I have every faith that you will not fail me. Twelve speed your way, Coral.
[NPC Interaction]
Alisaie: As I mentioned, Castrum Occidens straddles the cavern I wish to explore. If I am to have a hope of reaching it alive, I will need you to infiltrate the stronghold first and locate a path into the depths.


J'brohka: I've been expecting you, Coral. By your coming, I take it you have successfully located the cavern entrance inside Castrum Occidens?
J'brohka: ...So that's where it's to be found! Marvelous! Oh, but allow me to properly introduce myself. J'brohka is my name, and it is my honor to serve Lady Alisaie. Though, for reasons of convenience, at present I also serve the Maelstrom.
J'brohka: This uniform accords me certain privileges, you see─in particular, ready access to the Maelstrom's regional scouting reports. They provide a wealth of local knowledge, including information on secret passages.
J'brohka: Once your preparations are in order, let me know, and I will see you to the cavern entrance together with Lady Alisaie.
J'brohka: Though I don't doubt your abilities, none can say what dangers lurk beneath Castrum Occidens. For my lady's sake as well as your own, please spare neither preparation nor caution. Pray choose your companions well.


[Ask about the Binding Coil of Bahamut]
J'brohka: According to Lady Alisaie, a labyrinthine cavern extends for malms and malms beneath Castrum Occidens. “The Binding Coil,” I sometimes hear her call it, though I cannot rightly tell you why.


[Binding Coil of Bahamut - T1]
Alisaie: The scars left by the Calamity...
Alisaie: I can scarce breathe for the surfeit of aether...
Alisaie: Tell me, have you ever seen corrupted crystals such as these?
Alisaie: Such crystals manifested across the realm when the course of the great river of aether was irrevocably altered five years ago.
Alisaie: Behold one of the objects that caused that alteration: a fragment of the lesser moon Dalamud.
Alisaie: Ancient Allag created Dalamud─or Meteor, to use the Garlean name─to serve as a celestial prison for Bahamut.
Alisaie: Its fall inflicted grievous wounds upon the land─wounds that have yet to heal, as is evident from the corrupted crystals.
Alisaie: Amazing... Dalamud's internal defenses still function in spite of everything─a testament to the ingenuity of the Allagans.
Alisaie: The Garleans seek to appropriate their advanced technology, I am certain of it.
Alisaie: We are about to come face-to-face with secrets that have long lain buried within the sands of time.
Alisaie: Great dangers may lie beyond, but we have come too far to turn back. The truth of the Calamity is within reach.
















MAIN SCENARIO QUESTS - UL’DAH


Lv.1                Close to Home [s]
Lv.4                E Must Rebuild (Ul’dah) [s] Missing Screenshot
Lv.5                Underneath the Sultantree         [No Screenshot]
Lv.5                Nothing to See Here (Central Thanalan) [s]
Lv.6                Step Nine (Central Thanalan) [s]
Lv.7                Disorderly Conduct (Central Thanalan) [s]
Lv.8                Until a Quieter Time (Central Thanalan) [s]
Lv.8                Prudence at this Junction (Central Thanalan) [s]
Lv.9                Out of House and Home (Central Thanalan) [s]
Lv.9                Spriggan Cleaning (Central Thanalan) [s]
Lv.9                Way Down in the Hole [s]


Lv.10                Takin’ What They’re Givin’ (Ul’dah)
Lv.11                The Perfect Swarm (Western Thanalan)
Lv.11                Last Letter to Lost Hope (Western Thanalan)
Lv.12                Heir Today, Gone Tomorrow (Central Thanalan)
Lv.12                Passing the Blade (Central Thanalan)
Lv.13                Following Footfalls (Western Thanalan)
Lv.13                Storms on the Horizon (Western Thanalan)
Lv.13                Compulsory Catering (Western Thanalan)
Lv.14                Oh Captain, My Captain (Western Thanalan)
Lv.14                Secrets and Lies


CHRONICLES OF THE NEW ERA
MOR DHONA SIDEQUEST
JOB QUESTS
GRAND COMPANY QUESTS
BATTLECRAFT LEVES
MINING LEVES
BOTANY LEVES
FISHING LEVES
CARPENTRY LEVES
BLACKSMITHING LEVES
ARMORING LEVES
GOLDSMITHING LEVES
LEATHERCRAFTING LEVES
CLOTHCRAFTING LEVES
ALCHEMY LEVES
COOKING LEVES
COMPANY LEVES




















































































































































































The website is Powered by Google Docs.